Good afternoon. Uh, I am opening up the
regular meeting of the board of trustees
for Mount San Antonio College today,
Wednesday, September 10, 2025.
Item 1.02, confirmation of the closed
session agenda. This is um we are
removing item 3.02,
which is an appeal of the administrative
determination from discrimination
complaint pursuant to government code
and title 5 California regulation
section 59338
from the close session agenda because
the complaintant re withdrew their
appeal today. The board therefore will
no longer consider the appeal and the
district's administrative determination
will stand as the final determination.
At this time, the board of trustees is
going to listen to communications from
the public on matters that are on the
close session agenda and the board will
not permit any comments on items that
are not listed on the close session
agenda. So, uh we have one public
comment. So, uh, we are calling up Dr.
Hershel Greenberg.
Good afternoon, Dr. Greenberg.
All right. Hello, board of trustees,
President Garcia, and student trustee
when she arrives. Um, we are done with
negotiations.
I want to give a very special thank you
to SOA and Alexis for working closely
with the FA the last few weeks in order
to bring negotiations to a close. I also
want to thank the rest of the district
team. That's Tammy back there. Thank
you, Tammy. Uh Lance, Cooji, Kelly, and
Adam. It's been a pleasure working with
all of them.
The rapid pace in which we worked to
close negotiations required multiple
emails, phone calls, text messages,
emergency meetings. Sometimes they were
all at the same time and multiple times
within a day. While we are glad
negotiations are over, it is worth
noting that the pressure to close
negotiations ramped up this kind of
communication. As we move into a new
negotiation cycle, the FA wants to see
this kind of invigoration from the
district from the start. If we want to
meet whatever deadline we set for next
year, let's get some very clear, logical
proposals written from day one so they
can begin negotiated and approved as
quickly as possible.
Also, I get a sense that there's going
to be a theme for negotiations during
the next cycle. And I want to talk a
little about that. Um, the country is
going through a sort of what I call an
existential crisis. And if any of you
just looked at the news, um, that
continues to this very moment. Um, and I
believe this sense of dread is affecting
our students. Imagine you're a student
today and you wake up to the news. You
wake up to new laws, new rules, new
policies, new guidelines, new acts of
violence. and this affects who you are,
your family, your work, your career, and
your education.
I want to emphasize that Mount Sack
needs to continue to be a safe place for
students um where they can find support
and solace in this everchanging world.
Faculty and staff need to continue to be
empathetic and professional in order to
give students the keys to success. And I
want to ask that you keep this in mind
when we enter the next cycle of
negotiations.
Finally, uh you've heard me ask quite a
few times and so I'm going to ask one
more time that lead negotiators have
additional time to give you important
updates and important information
regarding negotiations. I know I have 29
seconds left, which is three minutes,
but I'm requesting that lead negotiators
have five to seven. You should see what
I leave on the junk pile of my word
documents that I can't share with you
because I don't have time. And I think
that information is valuable. and moving
forward, I'm requesting you would
consider allowing us to have five to
seven minutes to give you that valuable
information. Um, it's an important part
of the context for negotiations. So,
thank you very much for your time.
Thank you very much. At this time, uh,
the board will adjourn to close session
to discuss the following close session
items. 3.01, 01 which is conference with
labor negotiator uh chief negotiators
chief negotiators SOAN CSEA 651 CSEA 262
the faculty association Dr. Martha Mc
Garcia management and confidential
employees and also 3.03 3 public
employee performance evaluation of the
president and CEO. At this time we are
moving into close session.
[Music]
All right.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
How do you feel?
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
Spider-Man.
Heat. Heat.
[Music]
All
right.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
Heat.
Hey, Heat.
[Music]
Okay.
Heat. Hey. Hey. Hey.
[Music]
Check. Check. One, two.
testing.
All right. Good evening, ladies and
gentlemen. If I can have your attention.
If I can have your attention, please.
[Music]
[Applause]
Bye.
[Music]
Heat. Heat.
Heat. Heat. N.
[Music]
Turn it up.
Let's
go around.
[Music]
Good evening.
We will now begin our uh regular board
meeting.
Where is my
my gavl?
I am calling the meeting to order.
And uh I'd like to start um this
evening's meeting by giving
consideration and acknowledgement to the
Gabrielino Tongva peoples as the
traditional land caretakers of
Tongvagar.
I want to ask that we pay our respects
to the Honuk Vitam ancestors, the Ihum
elders, and the Eiohinkim, our
relatives, relations, past, present, and
emerging.
On the agenda, we are now at item 4.01,
the flag salute. Uh, Dr. Soka Song,
would you lead us in the bag flag
salute, please?
I pledge algiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for it stands nationy
and justice for all.
Thank you, Dr. Song.
I'd like to report of any action taken
during the close session. Item 4.02
and those would be um
item 3.01 01 conference with labor
negotiators
uh pursuant to government code and that
which included the chief negotiator SOA
CSEA 651 CSEA 262 the faculty
association Dr. Martha Garcia management
and confidential employees there was no
action taken item 3.03 03 public
employee performance evaluation
uh regarding the president and CEO.
There was no action taken. We're now
moving on to item 4.03 on the agenda
which is con confirming the agenda uh
approval for the agenda for today uh
September 10, 2025. Dr. Garcia, are
there any corrections to the agenda?
There is one.
Okay. The correction is action item
9.06.
It's resolution 25-02,
the appropriations limit for fiscal year
2526.
The correction is that the first
paragraph, the last sentence dollar
amount should read 287,820
I'm sorry, it should read 287,820,428.
So with that um we will now move on to
item number 5.01
and that is our recognitions.
Oh, here it is. It's in my back pocket.
All right. Good evening. Now, uh we want
to talk about um
the athletic year that we had here at
Mount at Mount Sack. And this is an
athletic year that will go into the
history books under the direction of our
dean Joe Jennum. his leadership, our
coaches, our staff, they really
delivered something extraordinary this
year. Not only not only did they uh they
represent,
but for the second time in the history
of Mount Sack, we captured a significant
award and that is the Learfield
Director's Cup. Let's give a round of
applause to that.
[Applause]
You're probably wondering what the heck
a Learfield director's club cup is and
why are we why are we we clapping about
it? Well, that cup represents the fact
that officially we are the number one
community college athletics program, not
in California, not in the western
states. We are the number one athletic
program in the United States throughout
the nation.
And because uh you know one crown is not
enough for our Mounties, we claimed not
only the uh Lefield Director's Cup, but
we claimed the Ron Case Cup for the 12th
consecutive year, scoring a record
shattering 193 points for the 3C2A
Championships. We secured the South
Coast Conference Supremacy Award, which
was for the 15th straight year, and we
racked up an unprecedented 17 conference
titles. Let's give it up again for our
I'd like to uh acknowledge our um
athletic director and the man, the myth,
the legend. Let me think turn things
over to you.
Well, thank you. Yes. and I have our
associate dean, associate athletic
director Tammy not Silva here as well in
addition to our collection of amazing
coaches and staff behind us. Um it was a
special year, a historic year and we're
very very proud of that. Our coaches,
our student athletes, our support staff
that that contributed to the uh amazing
year that we had this season. Uh but
today is about thank yous as well and we
want to start by thanking Dr. Garcia for
her uh commitment to us and certainly
her presence at our events and contests.
We know uh it was very special for our
coaches and our student athletes and
staff to see you there. So, we really
appreciate you being there and being
part of that. And our board of trustees,
thank you. We know that you're very
busy, but your leadership and your
vision of our excellence and the
commitment you make to our students and
our programs is certainly something that
we we recognize and acknowledge. and and
I I have to say thank you to Dr. Fowler
for our uh uh outstanding support for
our programs and your commitment again
to our students and our our faculty and
staff. It's it's certainly something
that uh we do notice and do appreciate.
but to the campus community at large,
the faculty, the administration,
the classified professionals, you
directly and indirectly contribute to
this award and this honor and all the
success that our student athletes and
our coaches and our programs achieve.
And so, in essence, this is a college
award. This is something that we want to
say thank you to everyone. And we really
appreciate all of the support that we
get from all of you. So, thank you on
behalf of our athletics department. We
appreciate it.
Yeah.
And then I just want to briefly um and
you do have a packet with all the
highlights of such an amazing year. And
then the other thing is we will be doing
another celebration most likely during
one of our football halftime shows. So
we'll make sure to get that information
to you. And last but not least and and
you already had mentioned it already,
board of trustees. Um without the
leadership of Joe Jennum, none of this
is possible. So I could speak for the
staff, faculty, coaches. You are amazing
and to be a part of it along with you
has been such a great year. So thank you
very much.
Thank you everybody. Really appreciate
it.
Congratulations. Congratulations.
[Applause]
All right.
This time we're going to move on to um
item 5.02
and that is the introduction of newly
appointed employees.
Um we have uh a number of new employees
and what I'd like to do is introduce
those who I believe are present and if
they want to just briefly make some
comments, we would be delighted to hear
from you. Under the classified employees
area, we have a new hire, Carlos Lopez,
who is in our rising scholars program as
a project program specialist.
Welcome, Carlos.
Hello everybody. Um, it's an honor to be
here. Um, uh, it's honor to be part of
institution that has supported me in my
personal and academic journey. Um, I I
will now serve as a program specialist
with Rising Scholars. I support formerly
incarcerated students uh through
mentorship uh advocacy and uh resources
and connect them to educational
resources. Uh I'm a firstg student. I'm
alumni of Mount Sack after 18 years
coming back to my community. Uh I
returned for education through Mount
Sack where I found a sense of belonging.
I'm now at Cal State Fullerton
completing my undergrad in human
services projected to 2026 spring. And
thank you.
Congratulations. Welcome aboard. We are
honored and so proud to have you, bro.
Manil. Um, we also want to extend a warm
welcome to Maria Valdez who is in our
foundation as an administrative
specialist. I don't know if uh Maria is
here. I don't think she is. But we also
want to extend a warm welcome to in to
uh Paola Alas Martinez in dual
enrollment who is our project program
specialist. I don't know if uh Paola is
here but uh I don't think she is. So now
we also want to um welcome these would
be our new faculty. Okay. Awesome.
So uh
uh you know earlier this evening we we
held for those of you who are watching
online we held a really wonderful
reception just before the board meeting
started and uh you know we are just
thrilled to have and welcome down
welcome um to our home uh these brand
new faculty. I know that we have faculty
who have uh who have chosen Mount Sack
when they lived in West Virginia and
they chose us. Uh we have um people who
who left the Cal State University system
from Cal State Long Beach and they chose
Mount Sack and the stories continue on
and on. And so, you know, the fact that
our I can speak on behalf of my board
colleagues. We know that you as
professors change our students lives and
they keep telling us over and over that
it was your class professor that changed
my life and because of that we are so
thrilled about the thousands of people
that you are going to touch and change
their lives in special ways. So with
that we want to welcome a new group of
professors who are about to spark that
same fire for thousands of other
students. And let's welcome in the arts
division um we have uh our professor of
music and he is I believe our band
leader. Let's welcome Walter Simson.
And Walter, you know, we're counting on
you to make sure that our students don't
just hit the right notes, but they also
find their own rhythm in life.
Yes. Welcome.
There we go. Good evening everybody. I'm
John Vulo, the associate dean of arts
and it's my pleasure to introduce to you
Dr. Walter Simson. Um, he'll tell you a
lot about himself, but I think you're
going to find it very exciting.
Good evening and thank you for this
opportunity. My name is Walter Simson.
I'm serving as the new director of
athletic bands and jazz studies here at
Mount Sack. I want to first begin by
thanking Dean John Vatouya who his
encouragement along with department
chair uh Karen Marston for their
guidance in building this. I would also
like to express my gratitude to the
assistant director of the marching man
and all-star adjunct instructor Matt
Almire for his continued support and
efforts. Uh President Garcia and this
board of trustees for your vision and
support of the arts and my new
colleagues who have already been so
welcoming. Your commitment to the
college and the students are inspiring.
For over 20 years, I've been fortunate
to serve as a professional trumpet
player, composer, arranger, and
educator. My career has taken me from
high school to college programs to the
national stage with Drumcore
International and Wintergard
International. And I've had the
privilege of helping build ensembles
from the ground up. Each of those
experiences has prepar prepared me for
this moment, and I can honestly say this
is my dream job.
What makes Mount Sack so special is its
mission to access and excellence. This
is a place where students of all
backgrounds and experiences can come
together, discover their voice, and be
part of something larger than
themselves. The Marching Man embodies
that spirit. It's a melting pot of our
entire community where students with
many years of experience stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with those picking
up instruments for the first time.
Together, they learn, they grow, and
they create something that none of us
could do alone. I am humbled to lead
this effort. and I'm eager to see the
marching man become a visible symbol of
pride for this college. I look forward
to working alongside my colleagues and
to seeing you at events across campus as
we continue to celebrate and support
this remarkable community. Also, I
believe that Dean was put a bunch of
stickers out for you guys that you can
check out too that were made that were
made by our own students here at Mount
Sack. So, we're keeping it all in the
thing. But, I'd like to thank you all
very much for this opportunity and I
appreciate the time.
Great. Thank you. Welcome,
Professor Simson. All right, in the uh
humanities and social sciences division,
first up is professor of communications,
Aaron Fulman. Is Aaron here? Hey, Aaron,
welcome. Aaron is uh you know,
communications is everything. So, we
hope that your students will leave class
knowing how to win any argument,
respectfully, of course. So, turning it
over to you.
Yeah.
No, you're good. I'm I'm Dr.
Carolynities
and social sciences. We have Dr.
here to support and
take it away.
Yeah.
All right. Uh hello everybody. Um again,
my name is Aaron Fulman. Um I just got
hired here to uh take over one of the
full-time tenure track positions here in
communication studies. Um this is my
13th year of teaching. I'm a Southern
California native. Um, I spent the last
decade or so working at different
institutions between California and the
Midwest. Um, and when I first applied
for this job, much like anyone who's
applying for a job, you try to do due
diligence to make sure that you say the
right things in the room. And, uh, there
was, uh, a quotation that came to mind
when I first started doing research for
this job. Um, it was from a movie that
came out in the early 2000s called
Acceptance that was about a guy who was
trying to find his place in the world
and couldn't find the right college for
himself, so he made his own. Um, and
there's a line in that movie that says
that there are so few truths in this
world that when you see one, you know
it. And when going through and doing due
diligence for the job, despite having
been at other colleges and universities,
I saw a campus and a faculty and a set
of staff and a board and a community
that cared. And I spent the last 13
years learning how to reall in love with
education. And every year the students
make that job so much easier. And when I
was doing doing research and looking
around on this campus, it was very clear
that our goals aligned and I wanted
nothing but to nothing more than to be
part of a college whose uh ethos and
identity and passion overlapped with
mine. So, when coming to apply for the
job, um it was a tremendous honor to be
offered the position. And in just three
weeks, it is very clear that not only is
this a place that I feel welcomed and
supported, but I'm surrounded by
colleagues who care about students in
the way that I do, and I'm so honored
and blessed to be here. I'm very excited
to be here and um I'm very proud to say
that I'm happy to set up roots and to
call Mount San Antonio College my home.
So, thank you so much for the
opportunity.
Thank you. Welcome.
Next up is our own Sylvia Tosskano who
is a professor in ethnic studies.
Welcome Sylvia.
Holaardes.
Um, want to thank everybody that's here,
especially my family that's supporting
me in the other room. For those
watching, my name is Dr. Silia Tosskano.
My pronouns are she, her, and Aya. What
being employed at Mount Sack means to me
is coming full circle. We have a 40-year
history in my family connected to Mount
Sack. Starting with my mom who's in the
other room. She was a non-traditional
student and uh was a housewife for 10 18
years or so and then decided to go back.
So it was between Mount Sack and Citrus
College and I was that little girl that
would sit with her in class and get
chips out of the vending machine and all
of that. So I witnessed how she gained
empowerment and how she gained
independence and also workplace skills
that made a significant contribution to
our household income. and she later
became a preschool teacher in Basset and
Hassienda Heights and is still subbing
there to this day. Um I came here and
attended uh after graduating from Ballen
Park High School and so I attended here
from 93 to 96 and then transferred to
Cal State LA. I have then gone on to
earn several degrees including a
doctoral degree in Chana Chico studies
from UC Santa Barbara in 2016.
My 26-year-old daughter also attends
Mount Sack. She is uh finishing up her
time in Vette. So, I'm very grateful for
the opportunity to share um from my
academic, professional, and lived
experiences. I look forward to continued
support from all of you to continue
edifying and empowering programs and
resources for our student um students
and community, especially those who are
most marginalized. And it means a lot to
me that I have been welcomed here with
open arms. Places like the equity
center, um, El Centro, the Pride Center,
they have really welcomed me in ways
that, um, go beyond and above my
expectations. So, I'm very grateful for
the opportunity. Much
gracias.
Thank you so much. Um, next up as part
of Dr. Uh Carolyn Hoover's team is Sarah
Quan who is our professor in
communications.
Sarah, are you here? There you are.
Welcome.
You know the shortest distance between
uh two people is good a good story. So
we expect that from you right now.
Oh my.
Good evening members of the board, Dr.
Garcia and everyone who took time to be
here. We are so grateful to have you
here. Thank you. What does working at
Mount Sack mean to me? First and
foremost, it is an opportunity to look
back at my 18-year-old self, an
immigrant first generation ESL student
who didn't know how much she had to
offer until she came to the community
college. When I got hired here, I
reflected on all the steps of my full
circle journey. And I truly allowed
myself to feel proud, which is not
something I allowed myself to do often
as an Asian student growing up
struggling with the pressures of the
model minority myth. Now, as a full-time
faculty at Mount Sack, I not only have a
chance to become the transformational CC
teacher that I needed and was blessed
myself to find, but to strive to become
even more, to be even better, to be my
students first point of contact to
everything our school has to offer. to
be their safe space, to be their point
of access to intergenerational mentoring
as I stand on the shoulders of my
mentors and elevate my students even
higher to be their fellow first
generation college student just years
ahead learning with them. An opportunity
to be part of the Mount Sack family
means that I get to have a job where the
work is never finished but always worth
it. And where yes, we get to care about
our academic freedoms and our work life
balance and our LHS and other great
things, but most of all, we get to care
about our students. And where that labor
of love is something that is never done
alone, but always in community and in
solidarity, supported by our colleagues,
supported by our wonderful deans and
division staff, and of course supported
by the pillars of our Mountsack
community, our strong college
leadership, and our board of trustees. I
am so proud to be a Mount Sack faculty,
and I look forward to the next 30 years.
Thank you so much for welcoming us.
Congratulations.
Welcome, Professor Quan.
All right, next up, um, in the same
humanities and social sciences division
is our professor, professor of
AsianAmerican studies, and that's Brahas
Rudrau. I hope I got that right,
professor. Maybe not.
Very close.
Okay, very close. Well, welcome. We we
are so thrilled you're here and you know
that um your course will remind our
students that every voice and every
story matters. So welcome.
Thank you so much for that lovely
introduction and welcome um to the board
of trustees and everyone gathered here
today. Thank you so much for having me.
My name is Prahas for the Raju. I use
they them theirs pronouns and I'm
extremely pleased to meet you and very
thankful for your approval of my hire.
Um like my colleague Dr. Michael Vasquez
who will be introducing himself shortly.
I joined Mount Sack actually back in
February 2025 and so I've had a full
semester here under my belt. I've taught
at Sea Sun. I've taught at UCLA and I
have to say that out of all of these
schools, my students at Mount Sack have
been the most engaged and warm and
curious and enthusiastic about their
learning. I'm proud to introduce myself
to you as the first and only for now
professor of Asian-American and Pacific
Islander studies here at Mount Sack. I
come to you as a scholar of the field of
Asian-American studies for the past 11
years who began my journey in ethnic
studies at the College of William and
Mary in southern Virginia, which is my
home state. As a teenager and young
adult, I was part of a coalition of
students and faculty members who created
the field of Asian and Pacific Islander
American studies at my school in 2016 to
create an academic home for an
overlooked and underserved population of
Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders at
our school. Asian-American studies
helped to teach us that we belong. And
if that date sounds familiar to you all,
that's um you know, this was essentially
what connected me to Mount Sack and what
made me know that this was the place for
me. Um but in 2016 is when at Mount Sack
the efforts to create ethnic studies
began. Um so I feel very connected to
the lineage here, even though I was all
the way across the country in southern
Virginia. As a young brown South
Asian-American growing up in post 911
America, Asian-American studies helped
me to understand my unique and often
difficult racial position in this
country. As an instructor, I feel
blessed to impart this knowledge upon my
students. Asian-American and Pacific
Islander studies means learning the
erased histories of significant
communities in the United States and
their ongoing lived experiences, whether
you're AAPI or not. For my Mount Sack
students, it means that I want them to
not just learn about these erased
histories, but also to build
solidarities and connections to the
communities around us. Supporting and
serving minoritized student populations
has been at the core of my mission that
I've undertaken since entering the
workforce in 2017. In my roles as youth
worker and nonprofit educator at
Asian-American Lead and the Human Rights
Campaign, I bring not only expertise in
the content of Asian-American and
Pacific Islander studies, but also the
heart of community support and
liberation, which all translates to
healing centered engagement that is
central to ethnic studies. And I also
bring years of supporting youth and
young adult populations as well as all
ages learners. That is so important when
it comes to our mission in the community
colleges. Thank you for your time and
thank you for your trust.
Thank you. Welcome.
And we can't uh forget the man who I got
to meet at commencement, Dr. Michael
Angel Vasquez. Welcome our professor of
ethnic studies.
And I know, doctor, that uh the work
that you're doing is going to help our
students see the world through new eyes.
And and that right there is priceless.
So,
Gracias. Um, so dear Dr. Garcia and
board members Ovasi, Dr. Vaka, Dr.
Yalgo, Chen, Chan, Hagari, Chiao,
Yidalgo, and Santos. Uh, my name is Dr.
Michael Anores Vasquez. I use heim
pronouns and I'm a proud new member of
the ethnic studies faculty here at Mount
Sack. It's an honor to be a part of this
community since I've always had a
relationship to this campus. Three of my
siblings and various cousins have walked
these same hallways. I grew up and went
to high school just up Grand Avenue, so
many of my peers have also studied here.
And now I'm happy to h And now I'm happy
to say that I am finally also able to
walk these same hallways. I want to
share that my few months here have been
incredible. I have had an unbelievably
warm welcome by my students and fellow
staff and faculty. I want to give a
special shout out to senior ethnic
studies faculty namely Larry McDaniel,
Erin Salinger, and April Theus, as well
as my deans, Dr. Hoover and Dr. Faren,
and my peers leading the faculty
association for their mentorship and
advocacy. I also want to recognize CBCS,
Dream, the Pride Center, Arise, Next Up
Reach, the First People's Native Center,
El Centro, the Multicultural Center, and
other equity focused programs for their
wonderful work. I do hope that this
board understands and builds upon the
necessary labor to ensure that this
campus remains an affirming and
welcoming environment for all in spite
of the external messages. Um, I I know
that we all want our students and our
faculty and staff to be housed, fed,
healthy, educated, safe, and cared for
in the way we all that they know they
deserve to be. and it is these programs
that have provided those services to
those uh individuals. Now, a little bit
about me. I just finished my PhD in
education at Harvard University. Thank
you. Thank you.
I am a proud Mexican-American scholar
and I am the first generation to
graduate from high school, the first in
my immediate family to earn a degree,
and the first in my extended family to
receive an advanced degree. Uh that is
all thank you to my amazing parents
Vasquez who right there.
[Applause]
Prior to my graduate studies, I was a
high school science teacher, a nonprofit
director, a researcher on immigration
education, and I was also a graduate
instructor on themes related to Latinx
studies, gender and sexuality, and
healing centered engagement. I have
always been a strong advocate for ethnic
studies, and I am moved by Mount Sak's
vision for our growing field. Thank you
for the opportunity to join this field,
and I look forward to expanding this
area of study because, as you all know,
it has the capacity to not only open
minds and hearts, but also promote
systemic change. So, Much Gracias, thank
you.
All right, moving on to our natural
sciences division. Our dean Tammy
Tamayo. Is she here or or
forgive me?
Jimmy, forgive me.
Jimmy,
yes.
It's good evening everyone.
Associate in natural sciences. And it's
my pleasure to introduce Becky Ratabar,
our new technology professor, who's also
our director for the new technology
bachelor's degree.
Welcome.
Thank you. Um I'm Becky. Um and I am the
one that drove all the way here from
West Virginia. Uh it took me four days
with me and my cat, but we made it.
Okay. And I'm quite thankful to be here.
So, I want to thank the board and um my
natural science division for welcoming
me here. It's it's been an honor. Um I
had something written, but I've just
decided to kind of go off the cuff and
and wing it. I also want to thank Cara
Pal. Um if any of you don't know Cara,
she's our biggest champion, the new
faculty. Um so, she's uh kind of taught
us all what to say and how to present
ourselves today. So, that was a big that
was a big help. She she threatened to uh
beat us up if we did not do it justice.
So
um anyway, as I said, I came from West
Virginia and I'm just happy to be here.
So I I know I have some big shoes to
fill with this technology program and I
just can't wait to um to make everybody
proud. Um I came to Mount Sack for very
selfish reasons. Um my wife and I didn't
feel safe in West Virginia, the climate
anymore. Um, and so I looked in
California for a job and we also looked
in New York for a job. I got the job in
California. She got the job in New York.
So we're living by coastal.
But the main thing is is that we both
feel safe and loved. And I just want to
thank everybody for welcoming me. And my
students and my faculty members that I
work with have been nothing but an added
bonus to be here. So thank you.
Awesome. Welcome. Welcome.
And I know, Becky, that even though um
you know, science they say it's all in
the stars, it's really sometimes it's
the smallest cells that change lives,
right? So, so welcome.
Um and I know I don't think um Professor
Priscilla Olen Luna is here, but she is
the professor of astronomy and and so
gracias. A apologies for the error. Uh
Dean Tamayo. All right. Next and last is
our in our technology and health
division and our dean Lance Herd is
here.
And our first guest is Samantha Fragoso.
Welcome Samantha. And she's a professor
in radiologic technology. Dean,
good evening. I'm Lancer, Dean of
Technology and Health. I'm very very
proud to introduce Professor Samantha
Foso.
Hello. First and foremost, I want to
express my gratitude to everyone that is
here today for giving me the opportunity
to be here. I can't tell you how proud
my family is to have me sitting here
today because I am a recent um well, I
consider 2016 recent,
but in 2016, I graduated from the rad
program. I am the first in my family to
major in health. I'm also the first in
my family to graduate from college. So
I'm hoping that I have broken the cycle
and that my son, my brother, everyone in
my family can go ahead and pursue um
something in in education. So uh I just
want to say thank you to everyone for
giving me that opportunity. So
professionally throughout the years um I
have been able to work in radologic
technology. Uh throughout the eight
years that I have been employed there, I
have had the opportunity of being
clinical instructor for these students.
Um, and I get so much gratification from
seeing them learn, work with patients,
and able to just guide them and support
them. Um, as a student here at Mount
Sack when I was going through here, I
never forgot the support and the
encouragement that I received from my
teachers um, from the program itself.
Uh, if it wasn't for them pushing and
encouraging me and telling me that it's
okay, you're going to do it, you're
going to be fine, you know, that meant
the world to me. And I just want to give
back to the community. I want to give
back to the student body. And I want to
be the person to put that uh feeling
into the students and to have the
stories that I'm sure all of you have as
well. Um and last and foremost, I want
to thank Lance and I want to thank the
entire uh radiology division for being
so welcoming uh and helping me through
uh this process as well as the new
faculty orientation that has been put
together that I know has been um here
for years. Cara has been awesome. Thank
you. Um and making me feel welcome. So,
uh, thank you so much and I appreciate
the opportunity of being here and I look
forward to supporting the students.
Thank you.
Awesome. Welcome. Welcome. And Dr.
Fergos, so you know, you're going to be
training our heroes who uh who behind
the X-rays are going to be helping
doctors see what they can't see. So,
gracias, we appreciate that. Thank you.
Thank you. All right. Um and then of
course uh not joining uh sadly uh
Michael Haynes is our other new
professor of uh RA respiratory therapy
and so we welcome him although he can't
be here with us. Thank you very much
Dean Herd. So with that we're going to
move on to item 6.01 on our agenda and
that is the approval of minutes of the
regular meeting of August 13. Is there a
motion for approval?
It's been moved. Is there a second?
It's been seconded. All the uh student
trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
All right. Motion carries. Thank you.
Next up is public comment. So at this
time the board is going to listen to
communications from the public on items
that are on the agenda as well as
matters that are not on the agenda but
are within the ma uh subject matter
jurisdiction of this board of trustees.
So under the provisions of the Brown Act
we are as board members uh not allowed
to discuss or take any action on
anything that you as guests are orally
requesting or not part of the agenda.
So, uh, again, we also want to remind
you that comments are limited to no more
than three minutes per person. So, we
have a couple of comments cards. First
up is going to be
my
Abdati.
Mal Mal Abdomati.
Is Mal here?
Yes. Mal Abdati. All right. Welcome.
Uh, you have three minutes.
Okay.
Hello. Um, hi, my name is Mal. Uh, a few
of you may know me. Um, I started here
in 20 in fall of 2023 and I graduated
spring 2025 with my associates in fire
technology and sociology. And I'm
currently a Cal State Long Beach student
majoring in healthcare administration
with a minor in emergency management. So
public service has always been really
big, close and dear to my heart. Um, and
honestly, like having transferred, the
one thing I can say about Mount Zach is
like Mount Sack truly did care about me.
Like especially now that I'm paying like
$15,000 for a dorm room, $630 for a
year-long parking pass. Like it's a lot
of money. And at a big school, big
schools make it's really difficult for
them to like in uh sorry to
individualize their like care to each
student that did really well, right? But
um as a few of you guys may know, I am
also really big on advocating. So
wherever I see pitfalls, I will make
sure to call them out. And the one thing
that I will hold against Mount Sack is
that although yes, Mount Sack does truly
care about its students, Mount Sack can
be doing a better job about listening to
its students. And I mean truly listening
to their students, asking the students
what they want and then implementing
that, right? So, a great example of that
is, as we can see, especially last
semester with the um with the
president's forums and the discussions
about AR-15s, it was brought to the
board's attention and to the president's
attention as well that the students want
more want more housing support, want
more financial support, want more uh
want more basic needs, period. And what
I've seen over the summer is that we
moved forward with getting new police
cars, but we haven't moved forward with
increasing the budget for basic needs,
right? We haven't move forward with um
trying to solve any of like the housing
issues. And I understand these are
really big issues to solve. These aren't
like one community college is not going
to solve the entire housing crisis in
the United States. But if we can make an
effort to make our students feel heard,
that's really really important. Another
major thing is in this day and age,
especially in this political climate, we
need we need to put more money and more
just care and support into our ethnic
studies programs. They don't have a
department budget right now. They have,
I think, only one or two full-time staff
members. They need more than that. This
is a growing department and a department
that means quite a lot to the pe the
students that you guys serve. You guys
primarily serve uh students of color. So
ethnic studies is a really big part of
their life, but that department doesn't
even have its own budget to be able to
support all these students. So again,
it's just about listening to your
students and again truly listening,
listening to what they want, and as a
board deciding what can we do, what can
we afford to do, and how are we going to
do it. All that being said, like I said,
I love Mount Sack. I love Mount Zach so
much that I am making the hourlong
commute just to come work here instead
of working in Long Beach. So, I really
do love Mount Sack and I thank you guys
for the best experience of my life.
Thank you very much. Next up is Alan
Smithy. Alan Smithy.
And then after Allan will be uh Caesar
Alvarado.
Hello. I talk a lot about the technology
and our students rights that are being
violated. I just want to say there are
solutions that would take a long time to
talk about. There's self-hosting.
There's proper encryption like publicly
keyed cryptography between students and
teachers. There are applications with no
logs.
They're allowing companies to collect
more data than they need on students is
a security risk. Forcing students into
legal agreements with corporations where
they take our data and take our rights
away is just horrible. I think
leadership should be liable and your
wealth should be on the line if you're
going to do this to us. We use K16
anti-AI cheat cheat cheat cheat cheating
which uses chat GPC or GPT0 sorry um in
GPT0's own test they said own text they
say the nature of AI generated content
is changing constantly as such these
results should not be used to punish
students which they are they are always
existing on there are always existing
edge cases cases with both instances
where AI is classified as human and
human is classified as AI James O'Brien
professor of computer science Berkeley
has some questions questions that I have
quoted. Is a student or parent or the
parent of the student someone with the
English a second language? If yes, there
are there may be a discrimination aspect
to the case. People with English a
second language often directly translate
idioms or other common phrases and
expressions from their first language.
The resulting text ends up with unusual
phrases that are known to falsely
trigger AI detectors. If the student is
a member of a minority group that makes
use of these of use of their own idioms
or English dialect as with a second
language speaker, these these these less
common phrases can falsely trigger AI
detectors. Is is the student accused
neurodeiverse? If yes, then this is
another possible discrimination aspect
to the case. People with autism, for
example, may use expressions that make
perfect sense to them, but that others
find odd. There is nothing wrong with
these expressions, but they are they are
unusual and AI detectors can be
triggered by them. We are paying these
companies that are profiting profiting
off of our student data and work also
doing false student false assessments on
students that are violating many student
rights and most of our leadership hasn't
acknowledged how surveillance technology
erodess these rights.
I have a lot more to talk about but I
can't do it justice right now. So that
that will be I think supporting mass
surveillance of our students shows that
these that the leadership is not fit to
be serving in the education sector.
Thank you.
Thank you very much. And next up is
Caesar Alvarado.
Hey, how are you?
Welcome. I'm doing great. I don't think
I've ever sat in this chair before, but
Welcome. You have three minutes. Thank
you very much.
Good evening, Dr. Garcia, trustees,
members of the DAS and campus community.
For anyone who doesn't know, my name is
Cesat Latan Vado, and I'm here today to
call on this institution to follow
through on some of its commitments to
take bold and necessary steps toward
justice and equity.
First, I would like the board to begin
the process of renaming our college from
Mount San Antonio College or Mount Sack
to Mount Yoat.
Names carry weight. And this current
name reflects a colonial legacy that
erases original peoples, languages, and
cultures of this land. By embracing
Mount Yoat, we not only just change a
name, but we acknowledge history, honor
indigenous roots, and take steps toward
decolonization.
I understand that this is a difficult
conversation, but I understand as well
that it benefits all of us. It fosters a
stronger sense of belonging, strengthens
community trust, and shows our students
and neighbors that we are unafraid to
lead by example in creating a more
inclusive and truthful future. Second, I
would like to ask the board to address
another urgent need in our student
community, mental health and psychiatric
care. While our college provides some
health services, we lack dedicated
psychiatrists and on-ampusies,
neurodeivergent students and those
living with mental health conditions
often face months long waits and
significant financial barriers when
seeking care. This gap directly impacts
our students ability to succeed. By
hiring dedicated psychiatrists and
implementing pharmacies within our
health centers, things that have already
been done by around 50% of the CSU
system, our college could be the first
in our system to provide lifesaving
care, reduce barriers to medication
access, and create pathways for more
students to graduate and transfer. The
research is clear. When students mental
health needs are met, retention,
graduation, and transfer rates all rise.
This is both a moral and practical call
to action. Renaming our institution to
Mount Yoat and expanding psychiatric
services are not separate goals, but
they are both steps toward building a
college that is inclusive, just, and
supportive of every student. Thank you
for your time and for your leadership,
and I urge you all to act on these.
Thank you very much. Thank you very
much.
All right. Now we're going to move on to
uh on our agenda to item 8.01 and that
is reports. So first up is associated
students u and Bert Nam and Albert Lopez
will be reporting on behalf of the
associated students. Welcome
Good evening, esteemed member of board
of trustees and president Garcia. The
fall semester has been off um to a great
start with parking lots and classrooms
filled with um the vibrant spirits of
students and faculty eager and excited
to return to a brand new semester. And
since the start of the semester, um the
ASN, the associate student senate and
executive board have been participating
in weekly training sessions every
Thursday. These trainings focus on devel
developing leadership fundamentals um
parliamentary procedures and preparing
officers to better serve the student
body and regarding co collegewide
committees. Students have been
continuously coming into the associated
student center actively seeking out
these opportunities and at the moment
there are more than 10 ongoing and
completed appointments for collegewide
committees.
Yeah. And I would like to share um oh
good evening good evening boards. I just
like to share some highlights of our uh
co-curricular engagement. So uh coming
soon uh in October 17th through the 19th
we have the fall leadership conference
uh which we which we received over a 100
uh applications from students. So that's
great news. Um this is a three-day
retreat uh focused on leadership,
personal growth and building uh healing
centered connections. And right around
the corner, we have Constitution Day
happening September 17th from 11:00 a.m.
to 1 pm held at the summit event uh
center. This event is featuring an on u
an engaging discussion on birthright
citizenship with faculty and speech and
debate team along with on-site uh voter
registration by LA County voter outreach
office. And today we had a great uh
turnout on the um the joint club. Uh so
it was really great engaging with
students and helping them uh be excited
for the school year. So thank you. And
that I think concludes our our report.
All right. Welcome. Thank you so much.
Thank you.
We're excited about the new academic
year and I'm going to come and visit
your student sen your student uh board
meeting one day soon. All right. Thank
you. All right. Item 8.02 faculty
association. Uh faculty association
president Emily Woolery. Welcome.
Good evening everyone. I hope you're
doing well this um this evening. Um
first up is that as you heard earlier in
public comment, well a little bit ago in
public comment, we do believe we're
ready to conclude negotiations of the
2425 contract. Um we're just awaiting a
couple of signatures on tentative
agreements, but we we expect those are
coming forward. and um the things that
were so we we do appreciate the
agreements we reached. Um I do see
progress towards equity both for our
adjunct faculty as well as for the
overall campus commitment to DSA. So we
are appreciative of that and we look
forward to continue to work on those
issues in the coming process.
In terms of the budget for the 2526
year, um we do see that that is on your
agenda this evening for approval and I
know it's going to go through. Um what
is concerning to us is to see the
college once again predicts an ongoing
budget deficit for the college. We see
year after year that we um the ending
balance continues to grow and for
several years we have exceeded board
policy 6250's requirement to have an
ending balance over 18.5%.
So I just want to share that faculty
members will question narratives that
our college faces financial challenges
and we are here to work with you to
continue prioritizing the learning
environment for our students and that
includes the faculty and staff that make
learning possible for our students as
well as some of our community members.
And then lastly we have some upcoming
events that we hope you will join us.
Um, one of them is an adjunct faculty
celebration that is scheduled on October
21st and this is an event where
departments recognize adjuncts and we
are also celebrating milestone years. So
we have adjuncts that have been here
many many years and we are taking that
opportunity to celebrate those
accomplishments. So October 21st from
11:30 to 2. We will send out more
detail, but we hope for now that you
pencil that into your calendars. And
also we are very excited to offer lunch
with a trustee again this semester. We
hope you are equally excited. Our
faculty members do love that time with
you. Um it's not often they get to sit
with a trustee over lunch and brag about
their programs and their students. So,
um, Maya and I greatly appreciate your
time for those lunches and I believe you
have a flyer left at your space. So,
please reach out to Maya and let her
know if you're available to meet with
some of our faculty. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Madame President.
Next up is item 8.03 CSEA 262, Brandon
Gillette. Is Brandon here?
Maybe, maybe not.
Okay, great.
Good evening, members of the board.
I want to begin by affirming CSEA's
support of our LGBTQ plus community here
at Mount Sack. for our members, for our
students, and for everyone who shares in
this community. All are welcome on this
campus, and we stand ready to support
any initiatives the district may
undertake to ensure Mount Sack remains a
place where all can thrive.
This year has been a turning point in
negotiations.
Just today, the last of our 15
agreements entered CSEA's 610
ratification process.
Together, we have made progress on three
of the most urgent challenges facing our
members. Outdated job descriptions,
unsustainable workloads, and
insufficient compensation.
We have also seen a welcome shift in
approach between CSEA and the
administration.
President Garcia recently extended an
invitation for improved communication,
and I want to thank her for that.
Strong communication is the foundation
of any healthy relationship. While
challenges are inevitable, open dialogue
gives us the mean to o the means to
overcome them together. Recent
interactions give us real hope that this
door is opening wider and we are
grateful.
President Garcia has also voiced her
support for our members who need relief
from heavy workloads. Our recent
agreements commit the district to meet
with us to identify areas most in need.
But her commitment has gone further.
Even before that agreement takes effect,
she invited us to share our data with
her cabinet to guide new staffing
allocations. She also expressed a
willingness to partner with us on
messaging to encourage a healthier work
culture across campus.
I also want to acknowledge the district
negotiating team and human resources.
This has been a challenging year due to
the diff the distance between our
positions at the bargaining table.
Despite that, the district's team acted
with professionalism and respect. I
believe our strong working relationship
with human resources prevented tensions
from escalating. We are grateful for
that partnership, and I believe we are
leaving this year in a far better place
than where we began. Special thanks as
well to SOA, Tika, and Alexis for their
leadership in improving our
classification and reclassification
processes.
While negotiations are still underway,
the progress we've made in the class and
reclass committee and at the table has
been substantial. For the first time in
many years, we see a clear path to
ensuring our job descriptions are
finally brought up to date. CSEA is
grateful for the agreements we've
reached this year, but I want to be
clear, these agreements are not a gift.
They represent fair compensation that
our members have long deserved. Our
members need these terms to best support
the students we serve and to ensure
Mount Sack can continue to attract and
retain the dedicated classified
professionals who make this campus run.
After years of deferrals, we are proud
to have finally secured agreements that
make progress towards both fairness and
highlighting the essential role of our
members.
That said, our work is not finished. In
the months ahead, CSEA will begin
preparing for next year's negotiations.
We will survey our members directly
about pay and working conditions to
allow their responses to drive our
proposals at the table. We will also
conduct an in-depth review of the
district's financials to ensure we come
to the table informed.
We recognize that financial constraints
are real and money does not appear from
nowhere. CSEA is committed to hearing
and understanding the district's
perspective and to approaching the
conversation collaboratively. But we
also want to recognize that budgets are
about priorities. And we hope, whatever
the financial circumstances may be, that
the district will continue to prioritize
the one and only thing that makes this
campus truly great, its people. Thank
you.
Thank you very much, Mr. President. And
next up is George Gutierrez with CSEA
651.
What happened to all the tables? I'm
used to working on the tables. So, um
first of all, good evening to um
President Garcia and the board of
trustees. I want to congratulate all
those that won the awards, but I also
want to acknowledge um grounds for
setting up the fields and the custodial
department for setting up all the
necessary things in order to have clean
restrooms and stocked and going through
and making sure that they're uh portered
during the events. So, I want to make
sure they get acknowledgement also for
um the prestigious award that Mount Sack
has received. It's a legacy. Um that's
why we have the Hall of Fame over here.
So, I want to acknowledge um my uh
Eboard. Um we have elections coming up
in uh December, which is just around the
corner. I also want to just thank each
and every one of them for all their hard
work that they put in as well as my
negotiation team. Um, I want to thank
the district team for their
professionalism
and their hard work and um,
collaborating with 651. And, you know,
we're always getting complaints. Why
don't we give compliments when
compliments are due? Um, so I do want to
compliment uh the district um for all
their hard work that they did in
collaborating with us and getting all
the TAs done. And um I do uh uh want to
thank that we got at least two
coordinators which helps out and um one
of the managers uh Brandon um he did a
great job. I felt really respected when
I worked with him on the committee as
well as um Jason Tacket. Um it was a
really great experience and I think
that's what we should experience all the
time when we do uh interviews. His
professionalism was um outstanding and I
appreciate that that you guys got good
managers that work with the night people
and also the day staff and swing shift.
So, I want to give it a shot a shout out
to them cuz too many times we complain
about people when we should also
compliment people too when they're doing
a great job. So, um
you guys already know the story. Um so,
I'm going to keep it short. It's never
too late to be what you might have been.
George Elliot, the only way to do great
work is to love what you do. I love
being the president for the union. I
love helping people. That's just who I
am. Um, I wear my heart on my sleeve. I
care about people. Uh, the only way to
do a great work is to love what you do.
Don't just learn, experience. Don't just
read, absorb. Don't just change,
transform. Don't just relate, advocate.
Don't just promise, prove. Don't just
criticize, encourage. Don't just think,
ponder. Don't just take, give. Don't
just see, feel, and do. And just dream.
and do that is so important. That is
Mount Sack right there because I see the
professors uh encouraging um the
students. Um I see also um we need to
encourage each other because we're in
the same fight and that's to see all
these students graduate and um be the
change and be the difference when they
go out into the community and what
they're going to be uh giving. So, I
appreciate everybody for all their hard
work and um
like I said, I enjoy what I do, you
know, um making Mount Sack great and um
protecting the integrity and the golden
standard of Mount Sack. And it's always
great to hear all the awards that they
receive because everybody participated
whether it was faculty, whether it was
counselors, the coaches, whether it was
even a custodian or grounds or anybody
in our departments.
We all care and we all bring something
to the table, whether small or great,
but we are all piece of the pie. You
know, the district might be holding the
shell, but we are the ingredients that
makes the pie, and I love pie. So, thank
you very much. You guys have a great
evening.
Thank you very much, President
Gutierrez.
All right. Item 8.05, Academic Senate.
Dr. Tanya Anders, welcome.
Good evening, board members. Dr. Garcia,
good to be here. I'm going to talk to
you about four things today. um dual
enrollment,
our Senate structure and then appendix E
positions as well as faculty hiring. So,
regarding dual enrollment, um the Senate
has been advocating for a dual
enrollment faculty leaison position. We
used to have one and then we lost it.
Dual enrollment is growing across the
state, part of vision 2030. And so we
felt there was really a strong need to
have a person that would link our
departments and divisions with the dual
enrollment team here within on our
campus within student services but then
also with the local school district. So
we're launching a pilot and with some
release time for a faculty member who
will have a number of key tasks that I
listed here for you in the report. And I
did a call out and received a lot of
applications which was amazing. I had 20
faculty express interest in serving in
the role. Um, we had selection criteria
that included experience teaching in
dual enrollment, potentially teaching at
K through 12 system, leadership
experience, curriculum experience, and
other things. And so we narrowed it down
to um a final candidate who will be
appointed at Senate Exec tomorrow and
then at full senate the week after. And
then we're looking forward to starting
off the work in collaboration with um
student services. So really happy about
that. Um last spring at the last Senate
meeting we approved a new Senate
committee and council structure that we
worked on for a long time and so we
eliminated a few committees, added some
new ones and so now is the first
semester where we're really fully
launching that. So um you I added for
you the the infographic here I guess you
could call it our flowchart of the
Senate committees and councils that we
have. is you know we have three um well
we have the 10 plus one three primary
areas as I always say curriculum
professional development and student
preparation success that's why we have
three councils that's what you see at
the top there and then committee serving
underneath so we're excited to get that
going um and um faculty and others from
across campus collaborating with us on
those senate committees um so the two
items that I am seeking your support
with um one is our negotiation cycle in
appendix E position. So for example that
um dual enrollment lea is on right now
is a pilot but we're hoping at some
point that position would be in our
contract in appendix E and I listed a
whole bunch of other positions that are
in appendix E that allow faculty to step
away from some of the teaching to help
fulfill these important roles of serving
our college. So for example again think
about the 10 plus one our curriculum le
is on our professional development
coordinator and so forth. Um we are
always so late in negotiating our
contract that I can't as senate
president appoint people until we know
well what what do we have what positions
do we have and ideally we would appoint
during the spring semester so that the
faculty know this upcoming academic year
say I have three L release time I don't
need to teach one I can teach one class
less and make room for a part-time
faculty to teach that class and so that
system is in a way broken for a long
time we our contracts have gone through
too late. So what we're asking that may
be a consideration for upcoming rounds
of negotiations that maybe appendix E
gets negotiated first so that we have
that information. So for example, right
now we're waiting for a DESA plus
coordinator to be appointed and if our
contract goes through and we have that
position then that person will now start
working probably week five or six into
the semester rather than with the
beginning of the semester. So, we're
asking for you to advocate for us if you
can with the negotiation teams. That
would help us. And then the other area
where we're asking for your support is
the hiring of faculty. We will be
entering the new cycle which is always
exciting. And may I say what an amazing
group of faculty. We are onboarding
again. Amazing. Just absolutely amazing.
So many talented people and we're
excited to get to know them better. Um,
so we would love to have a larger group
of faculty to be hired. We had two small
hiring rounds. Seven in the last I know
that expanded to 10, but originally was
seven and then nine in the year before,
but we have a much larger group of
retirees. I over 20 people retired.
Plus, we have we're helping with the
growth. We have enrollment growth. Uh we
even have um some departments that are
now way under. We have some departments
with one full-time faculty. They're
supposed to have three to be department.
So, um, we are asking you to please
advocate for more faculty, full-time
faculty positions. We have under 450
right now. We have over 1,800 adjunct
faculty. There's clearly a need for more
full-time faculty and we would love to
have your support. And finally, I want
to thank you for attending Flex Day. if
you were able to make it. It was amazing
to have Chancellor Christian there to
give our keynote address and we really
appreciate your support of the faculty
and showing that you care about us.
Thank you so much.
Awesome. Thank you so much uh Dr. Anders
and item 8.06
uh the classified Senate and Gloria uh
you are reporting out today, right?
Yes.
Okay, great.
Good evening Dr. Garcia and board of
trustees. Uh my name is Gloria Mongia. I
am the classified senate second VP and
uh Iet Garcia sends her apologies for
missing tonight's meeting and I'll be uh
reporting uh reading her report.
Classified Senate is pleased to announce
that we are working with the Mount Sack
Foundation to reestablish a scholarship
award for a classified or confidential
employee. At this stage, we are
collaborating on the criteria and
structure to ensure we will provide a
little help in supporting professional
growth opportunities for our colleagues.
We look forward to sharing more details
in the coming months as the scholarship
is finalized and ready to launch. On
September 18th, 2025, revisions to the
title 5 regulations related to the
flexible calendar program will take
effect and be published in this in state
law. These revisions expand a flex
eligibility to include not only faculty
but also classified professionals,
student workers, and administrators.
The chancellor's office will provide
colleges across the state with
implementation guidance to support
districts in documenting and integrating
professional learning opportunities for
all employee groups. This represents a
significant shift formally recognizing
professional development as a shared
responsibility and opportunity across
the campus community. We await the
chancellor's office implementation
guidance to understand better how this
will be operationalized at Mount Sack.
Uh Halloween event classified senate is
planning the process. We're in the
planning process for our Halloween event
scheduled for Friday, October 31st. We
have some fun activities in store and
schools first federal credit union will
be joining us to provide resources and
help give out prizes. We encourage
everyone to start planning their
creative costumes and look forward to a
festive day of community and
celebration. Thank you.
Thank you. I love how um the classified
senate is working with the foundation to
really secure the kind of funding from
from the from the uh the credit union.
Thank you for that report. All right. Uh
now we are moving on to our action
items. We have um a total of eight
listed but seven are really action
items. So uh let's start with 9.01 which
is management contracts. So first let me
read out something and that is the
government code section 54953C3
requires that before that this board
takes final action a summary of the
recommendation regarding the salary
salary schedules or compensation
um that is to be paid in the form of
French benefits or contracted managers
must be orally reported. So I'm
reporting the following summary
regarding this item that's appearing on
the agenda and it's uh and any kind of
longevity longevity pay doctoral stipend
as identified on the management salary
schedule and health and welfare benefits
granted to any other management
employees will be provided to the
eligible managers when relevant. The
item is one, it's a temporary assignment
uh for in the area of financial aid and
special programs. It's uh for Michelle
Casas as acting manager of financial aid
and special programs with a monthly
salary of $9,966
for the term September 15, 2025
through February 28, 2026.
Is there a motion for approval?
approved.
It's been moved. Is there a second?
It's been seconded by Gary Chow. Um, any
discussion?
Hearing none. Student trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Any abstensions? Motion
carries. Moving on to item 9.02, revised
salary schedule for student assistance.
Um, is there a motion for approval?
It's been moved by Trustee Chen
Heggerty. Is there a second?
Second by Trustee Chen. Um, any
discussion?
Hearing none. Student trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Any abstensions? Motion
carries. Thank you. Next up is item
9.03, 03 proposed revisions to board
policy 2725
which is board member compensation and
if I'm not mistaken Dr. Garcia, this is
the second reading. Is that right?
Correct.
And uh this is the one where we uh
separated the um compensation for the
student trustee. And uh from that of the
regular trustees, the compensation, if
you haven't read the document, is um
there's a monthly stipend
um of $700.50
or $750 per month.
Is there a motion for approval?
It's been moved by Trustee Chen. Is
there a second
and seconded by Trustee Cow? Is there
any discussion?
Trusty Santos,
what about a 5% increase to 780?
Um, this is a discussion item. The
question is, um, Dr. Garcia trustee
Santos wants to know what would be the
process to modify the the existing board
compensation or all board the student
trustee as well.
Yeah, everybody just changed this to
from 750 to 780
to change this from 750. So you're
saying 5% equals 780. What what are the
I I need direction from the board. I'll
modify the board policy. bring it back
for a first reading and then a final
action and that would be the process to
to mod to modify it and
uh proceed if the board approves.
So
the first step is direction from the
board if there's consensus to modify it
and um you are able by action to
increase the compensation for the board
by 5%.
If you choose to do so,
just one time.
Yeah. Has it ever been increased?
It is. Uh,
Director Nelson,
no. Because you're at the max for our
size district.
So, uh, it's my understanding that, um,
the community college districts that
that are as large as ours, our maximum
at this point is $750 a month. However,
correct the board has is allowed by law
to increase it 5%. Is it every year? We
are allowed to increase it 5% every year
if the board so chooses. The 5% in this
case as trustee Santos has indicated. Is
that correct? Um, Vice President
uh Dominguez, that would be about 780.
787 would be the actual amount.
So that we're in discussion. Trustee
Algo,
I would say that we I mean, preferably I
would prefer to have that conversation
at a different time. Right now, I just
feel like this is for student trustee
compensation. So I I mean I'd be willing
to entertain that conversation, but for
purposes of this agenda item, I think
it's important that we just do the
student trustee compensation
and look at other models at a different,
you know, maybe at another board
meeting.
Well, well, we had the the comparative
last time at the first meeting. We
already had the comparatives.
So we don't we don't um when employee
groups get a raise, that doesn't apply
to the board then. That's not in our
bylaws.
Okay? So, we're just flat. Okay.
Trusty Chow,
I I'd rather decline this this raise. I
think this is the best lowpaying job
I've ever had and I I'm in it for the
service and the
uh seeing our success in our students
and I feel the meals are outstanding.
Okay. So, I would say I'm okay with the
pay as it is.
All right.
Would you like to start paying for the
meals?
Yes, Dr.
Dr. Baka said would he like to start
paying for the meals? And so, um are
there any additional discussions?
All right. Hearing none, um there is a
motion on the table to approve the
existing um board policy 2725 board
member compensation. All student
trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
I.
Any opposed?
Any abstensions? All right. Board
carries. Thank you. Um item 9.04
um agreement with Steady Solutions Inc.
for Miracle Mile Plaza Handscape
Hardscape rather landscape
as it relates to a bid. Um is there a
motion for approval?
It's been moved by trustee Chan
Heggerty. Is there a second by trustee
Baka? Any discussion?
Dr.
Have we ever had a landscape project
with this dollar amount? It seems
pretty pretty high.
I mean, I've seen a lot of them before,
but maybe it's just the scope of the
project is much bigger than what we've
normally voted on.
And team, can you step forward and
provide an explanation, please?
Good afternoon. Um, my name is Valerie
Oden, assistant director of design and
construction. And with me, I have uh
senior project manager John Gaston. So,
this area um I'll let him speak to it.
Yeah, the site this is where buildings 9
F and G used to be located. So part of
the student center project removed those
trailers. So for the last
five years or so, we've had an open lot
with a construction fence around it. The
the scope of that work requires removal
of the old asphalt, excavation, putting
the dirt back, new concrete, but it also
includes sight lighting and outdoor
furniture and some uh student focused um
electrical components.
Do do you have a rendering that we could
see?
Yeah, we have a a full design that has
been bid out. We're reviewing those bids
right now. Could Could somebody pull it
up for us to look at?
I don't think we have that right at this
moment. Uh
what's the biggest part of that you
the the large cost component mostly?
Most likely it's it's the site
preparation.
There's a lot of asphalt. There's
asphalt up against the the embankment to
the north right below uh building 16.
Does it involve environmental mitigation
or anything that
uh No. No. There's a retaining wall that
will be installed at the north because
of the tiered everything at Mount Sack
is uphill.
So, is the rendering on our website?
I don't believe it's been put on our
construction website.
We We can get you a copy of the
rendering.
What What portion of the total cost is
that?
I don't have the breakdown on the bid in
front of me.
Um
that's okay. the the site prep. I I
would take an educated guess. I I
believe it's it's at least 50% of the
cost.
Okay.
For site prep.
So, can you describe it?
BP Dominguez, do you have the the cost
in by any chance in your email?
Yes. So, we have the the total bid at
1.38 million. Um, but as stated, um, and
then I was going to ask John, uh, if we
table this to the next board meeting,
will that impact our project or
I would not suggest that.
Okay.
I would not I think we need to provide
responses to the board. If pull up I we
could take a minute or two to pull up
the details. I'm sure you have it an
email so that you explain the the cost.
Can you do that, John? Yes.
Yes, we could do that.
Okay. Um, we we could send the rendering
to the board of trustees, but I want to
make sure they respond to the cost,
which is the major concern. What is
generating the greatest cost in this
project? So,
I want to say there's probably a lot of
concrete.
Can you pull it up? Can you pull up
right now?
Um,
I would have to grab my computer.
Yes, we could. That's fine.
Dr.
Is it possible to get um renderings
included with these board documents in
the future anytime we're talking about,
you know, when a design is ready or it's
in process just so we know, you know,
what it looks like.
Definitely, we will do that moving
forward.
Thank you.
Can you describe what's going to be a
million dollar fabulous?
Yeah. What what it looks like? Well,
it's it's the area, if you're familiar,
on the north side of Miracle Mile
on the other on the other side of the
walkway.
Yes. Diagonal from the Peace Pole area.
Uh it's a flat space. It'll it'll have a
assortment of of familiar concrete
outdoor furniture, tables, benches, uh
various kinds of chairs. We're
installing four light fixtures across
there that are inconsistent with what is
existing along Miracle Mile already.
Is it going to be solar lighting?
No, it's it's wired in with all the rest
of the controlled lighting along Miracle
Mile.
Dr. Garcia, I just hope that um for the
future any kind of specifically action
items that staff is prepared to answer
these kind of questions cuz uh the fact
that no one knows the answers to these
questions, I'm kind of stunned. So I
don't know if you have any information
for us
and I apologize for that on behalf of my
team because we understand we should be
better prepared when we are uh attending
and preparing to answer to the board
members during the board meeting. So I
apologize for that. It will not happen
again. Be ready to respond to details in
regards to the other items. So, um, if
if if
there's additional details that are
requested, let's make sure we're ready
as well, Valerie. So, for this one, as
soon as you're ready, please let us
know.
And also, um,
this is the first time I've heard that
the student center replaces 9C, student
services.
Uh, what does that mean? Is 9C going to
be closed?
What's the plan?
I've never heard of uh
it's the site where 9 F and G were
located.
Well, this says that uh
the student center replaces 9C, student
services. That's what it says right
here.
I believe that's a typo.
Okay, thank you.
Yeah, that's what I'm leaving. I'm
trying to pull up the tabulations for
you, but I don't have there's no detail
on open gov for me to pull up. Um,
Angelique, do you have them
detail?
Yeah. Well, I I would So, what we're
trying to determine is a breakdown of
the cost so that we identify what is
generating the greatest cost in this
project. Do you have that? Yeah, it's an
open
um the cost the pricing.
What does that mean? Open gov.
That's our bidding system. So we have
the um proposals the detailed proposals
that we go over those costs with you.
So I have it here in front of me. So the
prime contractor who is study solutions
um is a total cost of 339,857.
Uh they have multiple sub subcontractors
that will be doing the concrete grading,
electrical demo and landscaping of that
area. Uh so uh first um subcontractor
who's doing the concrete and grading is
453,387
which is our biggest cost along with the
general contractor as I stated before.
Uh we have electrical that's going in
there as John Gaston me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me mentioned uh for
41,76.
Um and then we have the demo of the
area, right? So we have to break down
the asphalt and remove all that. Um so
that's another 84,916.
The Marina landscape who will be doing
is another subcontractor who will be
doing all of the landscape in that area
is 139,250
and that equals our million58486.
In addition to that, there is an
alternate uh to add in telecom
infrastructure for security cameras, low
voltage for uh WAPS um which is the
internet um for an additional 73,288
and I believe we built in a contingency
in there as well for any unforeseen
conditions. So I do apologize for not
having this information. we're going to
have
um it's possible uh that we can put the
cameras there. It does not mean that
we're going to have cameras there.
So, the cameras aren't included in this.
Uh no, the infrastructure for having
security cameras is going to be built
in, but we haven't approved the actual
cameras to be installed.
That would be another added cost.
So, it's going to be concrete furniture.
Yes.
And then some green, some landscape.
Mhm. That's correct. And we require
irrigation to keep the grass green. So
that's part of it as well.
And this represents the lowest bid that
was provided. That is correct.
Where bids went up beyond $2.2 million.
That is correct.
And then you'll give us the renderings.
We will send you the renderings later
this evening. Unfortunately, I don't
have those. I apologize in advance for
that.
to follow up a little bit.
I know that some of the offices were 9C
were moved
to the student center. What what is
happening with that that uh
that 9C?
I believe we don't have that correct.
We had 9F and 9G modular.
But the 9C, what's happening with that?
They pick us up. So currently that is
the uh site for our basic needs um
programming and also staff offices and
so forth in addition to our
international student programs.
Okay. So we're keeping it for a while.
Um it is the the location for now until
uh um any any potential uh changes into
the future.
Yeah. 9C is a permanent building, right?
Yeah, that's a permanent building.
There's no
1953. We'll keep it till 203
unless there's plans approved to move
forward with another student services
building, but at the moment there's not.
So there's just a couple of programs in
there and it's
it's kind of not as busy as it was used
to be and
correct. So uh there is uh again basic
needs international student programs 9C
stage is still used at times uh for
different programs and events. Any
additional discussion? Oh,
yeah. I had a question about the
concrete furniture.
Is it is it going to be similar to what
we have outside of the uh business
technology center?
I think it's going to be uh more similar
to what's outside of building 414 if I'm
not mistaken. Is that
Yeah, that and student center.
Okay. The shared quad.
I just remember the the concrete
furniture there. You have some really
tall like chair
concrete chairs and I'm not sure how
usable they are. Maybe people love them,
but just want to make sure that whatever
we're doing is actually usable and not
just aesthetically interesting.
Yeah, I concur. Yeah, we we will look
into that, but most definitely it's
going to be closer to what's currently
in front of student center and in front
of building 414 to make that cohesive
look.
What about charging stations or plugs?
Um, I want to say that there's probably
going to be some there because we are
adding electrical in that area,
but no. So,
any additional questions?
Appreciate you uh being resourceful and
bringing that information up so quickly.
I apologize in advance.
No worries. Thank you. All right. Um, if
there is no additional discussion, we'll
call the question. Student trustee,
I approve. All those in favor say I.
I.
Any opposed. Any abstensions? Motion
carries. Thank you. Next is item 9.05,
appointment of a member to the citizens
oversight
uh committee. And uh this is for it's
recommended that the board review the
application and determine whether to
appoint uh Zoya Chen as student
representative to the citizens oversight
committee effective October 1. Is there
a motion for approval?
It's been moved by Trustee Chen
Heggerty. Is there a second? Second by
Trustee Chen. Uh, any discussion?
Hearing none. I think it's great that a
student member is joining us. Um, I hear
that we've always had a student member,
but I just have never when I go there
was never a student member.
Uh I'm thrilled that they will be part
of that and uh keeping us honest and uh
so uh we'll call for the question.
Student trustee
I approve.
Uh all those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Any abstensions? Motion
carries. Thank you. All right. 9.06
resolution number let me see where we
are. New resolution number uh 252.
um to uh it's the appropriations limit
for fiscal year 2526 as required by law.
Uh is there a motion for approval?
It's been moved by Dr. Baka. Is there a
second?
Second by was that student trustee? Oh,
it's trusty John Hagerty. Uh any
discussion
hearing? None. Uh student trustee,
I approve. All those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Any abstensions? Motion
carries. We're moving along. That's
great. Um all right. Next is um a public
hearing. Um the uh we are opening um the
public hearing item 9.07
regarding the 2025
2026 budget. Um I am opening this public
hearing.
Are there any comments from the public
regarding the budget
hearing? None. I will close the public
hearing at this time.
All right. Item carries. That's now
we're moving on to item 9.08.
Is there a motion for approval to
approve the budget for fiscal year 2526?
It's been moved by Trustee Santos. Is
there a second?
Second by Dr. Baka. Any discussion?
Is there a presentation?
Yes, there is a presentation.
Is there anyone who is presenting on the
budget? If you could please move
forward, that would be great. And board
colleagues, for those of you who are
here, I believe there is a document
attached. You can see the presentation
on the attachment.
Greetings. If you'd like to introduce
yourselves.
Uh, greetings. Good evening. Uh, Vice
President Joe Dominguez of
Administrative Services.
Good. Good evening, Rosa Royce. Um,
intering vice president of
administrative services.
And just wanted to start off that, uh,
the fiscal and budget team are committed
to maximize our financial resources and
support student success as we navigate
um, uh, fiscal guidance and our state
economy. and here at Mount Sack and how
to support the great work uh being done.
So, as we start, we'll go um
uh to give a context of the 2526 uh
state budget. So definitely uh testing
times with the stock market uh
challenging with the the impact of
federal tariffs um and then uh federal
cuts and then just general increases of
state costs and inflation uh cost of
goods. And so we see that as well. And
with that um the state is facing a 12
billion deficit for 2526.
Um however that does not include no
major core reductions to community
college programs in the state of
California. So um we do feel though the
the fiscal impact of lack of deferred
maintenance funding uh instruction
equipment IT and there's other items
that we'll uh discuss in the
presentation.
Um the governor and the state
legislature supported uh a cola a 2.3%
which equates to 24 uh4.2 million and
provided 140 million across the 2425
and 2526
budget years to support a combined
enrollment growth of 2.35.
Um this was interesting and we reached
out to the state and the chancellor's
office and our district auditing firm
and confirmed that uh when the governor
did that we recognize it in 2425 and
another portion in 2526 and we have
slides later to break that down. Um in
addition to uh the the context and the
environment here in California with the
wildfires uh the governor legislature
also have a fire related tax backfill of
3.8 8 million for 2425 and 8 million and
2526.
Uh cash flow reserves and the Prop 98
split. Uh specific to the Proposition 98
split, that's in reference to
transitional kinder. Um portion of that
is K12 and then the other portion is
community college. So, there was a
portion or a proposal um that was going
to shift those funds from the community
college system to the K12 system. And
through uh back and forth and through
negotiations at the state level uh at
the recent announcement, they're
returning the 260 million as ongoing
funding to the community college system.
So, it's not going to K12 uh as of what
we have right now. uh we don't know down
the road but as of right now that's what
it is. Um one of the other challenges as
I mentioned is the um deferrals. Uh so
even though uh in general funding was
not reduced uh they submitted some IUS
uh to community college systems in
California at the tune of 48.4 million
for 2526 to go to 2627.
So, that's a delay of our skiff payment
uh to our district. Uh that delay
equates to 11.8 million for Mount Sack.
Um the good news is we have um reserves
and cash flow and we're healthy. So, we
have full confidence that we can take
that on uh that deferral and so we don't
see a need that we need to borrow or do
um any additional um steps to take that.
So, we're good. And then um Proposition
98, the governor is also authorized with
the legislature uh to tip into uh tap
into their reserves and the rainy day
fund. And so they'll continue uh to do
so to address the state deficit
uh in expanding access, equity, and
workforce readiness. Some one-time funds
I think that was also finalized. uh and
we'll go through briefly but uh tech and
data systems at the state level 12
million 6.6 6 million for e transcript
um rising scholars network of 10 million
ongoing for all colleges to participate
in the rising scholars network and mount
sack has definitely produced and
participated and been successful there
and then credit for prior learning and
career passport 15 million for one time
and 5 million ongoing to scale credit
for prior learning and 25 million one
time to implement the career passport uh
funding wraparound services to ensure
for student completion. 60 million one
time to student support block grant. Uh
20 million one time to support emergency
financial assistance grants to students.
Uh 15 million one time to support
dreamer resource leaison. And kudos to
our state of California because we
definitely feel the um the difficulty at
the federal level. And then 5.1 million
one time for financial aid outreach
through community- based organizations.
So a holistic approach with our
community partners. Um in regards to our
skiff um additional 100 million uh for
growth bringing the total growth funding
to 128.1 million and repaying the skiff
deferral of 243.7
uh that was impacted in that fiscal year
and then reappropriates revenues to
support fully funding the skiff for
2425.
And then for 2526 the governor
legislature have come to agreement to
support skiff at 39.9 million and that
is a.57 enrollment growth. Uh in
addition 217.4 to support cola at 2.3%.
Uh and however like I mentioned earlier
uh they came to a consensus to defer
48.4
4 million from 2526 to 2627,
but also reappropriated revenues to
support fully funding the skiff. And so,
um, there is definitely need throughout
the state system. Um, but we are happy
to see that those reappropriations have
taken place to support our skiff funding
model. Uh in addition the 100 million
for 2425 growth funding and the 39 uh.9
uh and 2526 is a combined growth rate of
2.35
and we uh commend the state and it helps
us reduce the amount of unfunded
full-time uh equivalent students and so
we are working very hard to do so and
then our um in the process um the early
recalculation
is usually done when the fiscal year
comes to a close. The legislature and
the department of finance takes a look
at that uh and makes adjustments
themselves uh to align to uh funding
based on actuals and audited data. And
because of that, the additional 100
million in growth funding for 2425 and
then accounts for additional funds
appropriated in the budget act. And then
for moving forward uh for 2425 the
second principal a portionment was was
used for the the calculations for that
funding portion.
So I just wanted to remind everyone uh
Mount Sack we are doing amazing work in
supporting student success our faculty
classified everyone uh from our trustees
our president and all those that are
supporting the cause. But uh from the
base in our our skiff formula is our
enrollment numbers and then you add our
supplemental which is the number of
students receiving grants from college
promise our PEL and our California
non-resident students that receive a
grant and then you add to the success
measures which is in regards to our
earned degrees certificates
transfers to four-year universities or
completing level uh transfer level math
in English and then that equals our
skiff calculated revenue.
So I mentioned that because uh as we
continue down that path to be successful
um once again the one-time and then
turning to ongoing funding for 2425
we have funded 34,776
full-time equivalent students. we still
have unfunded 810 uh full-time
equivalent students. So, question mark
uh with the governor, the legislature,
the state economy, and all the things
that I mentioned. Um but let's see uh
how that moves forward. But of as of
right now, that is a commitment that we
have to fund those 810 unfunded
full-time equivalent students. And so
the funding formula and then uh
lobbyists and just the community college
system uh to push to get um additional
funding.
Kudos to instruction and everyone uh
throughout our campus. It's a team
effort, but we are uh credit enrollment
trends overall. uh we are on ticking up
at 199,26
for 2425 and the trend is still moving
upward. So, uh, kudos to the entire
team. And I know we celebrated an award,
uh, for athletics department, um, a
national award, but we have a statewide
award. And I I don't have the trophy
yet, but I want to give kudos to our
nonredit. Uh, Mount Sack is number one
in the state in nonredit. Uh, the
largest, the baddest, bad, meaning good,
and and at 11,726.
So, uh, kudos, congratulations to
nonredit
and that definitely helps and
contributes, uh, to the work that we're
doing and we'll continue to do so.
Um, and then regards to our actuals to
our uh, variance uh, per se. So, I
wanted to point out um, the the
highlight here. So 2425 the skiff
adjustments including growth approved by
the governor on June 27th that was after
our last uh budget presentation that
13.2 2 million 10 million is uh that
funding that they announced on the 27th
and then that supports the 1,351 uh
full-time equivalent students and then
the remaining is our P2 growth. So that
as we grow as a district. So our 2425
estimated revenues at 16.4
uh million. And then if you look at our
2425 unexpended line items, um the 8.3
are are our VA our vacancies uh and
benefits. So salaries and benefits
vacancies and then uh the 3.1 negative
is the impact of hourly faculty hours
and we're partnering up with instruction
as we move forward. And then we also
have some good news that we are uh
budgeting uh to hire additional faculty.
Uh but we need to work on a balance
between our hourly and our full-time
faculty. And so that's where you see the
3.1. So that's an area that we'll work
in partnership uh as we move forward.
And then the parking uh support due to
decrease in students. Um this is postco
and so uh I just want to commend our
instruction team though we have online
instruction different modalities but now
uh the ripple effect of that is the
reduced parking permits and that is the
amount that we're committing from the
general fund to offset the reduction of
our parking permits.
So we have approximately 1.9 uh million
from the general fund to help support
that. So we are going to work together
to to see what we can do. Um and then
also as we mentioned if that is a trend
then we need to have that budgeted. Um
so we are are working with the team on
that. And then the other piece uh right
below that at 7.1 million um one thing
that uh that is a challenge and it
hasn't been mentioned on on any state um
update but we know we have not been
funded for 2 years in deferred
maintenance and instruction technology
and that's a challenge for us and so
when that has taken place we have to
from our general fund commit uh so we
have to fix the broken things and
systems and infrastructure and provide
uh as much as we can the latest
technology uh for our students and our
faculty and our staff. And so that is
our commitment and um so we'll continue
to do so. Um but that's a challenge that
we're faced with. Um and then in
addition uh utilities and so um the
ongoing cost of utilities and we're
working with our facilities team and
maintenance and operations and how we
could reduce our utility usage and I
know um our facilities team is also
working on a solar project. We have more
information coming at another board
meeting but that's also an opportunity.
How do we reduce our utility costs? And
so that's an opportunity that we're
looking at. So in in total the
positive variance of 6.4 4, which gives
us an ending fund balance uh before GSP
B 101 at um 65.9.
And GASP 101 is a new government
accounting standard that establishes a
single model uh for districts and
government entities to follow. And it
recognizes and um measuring liabilities
uh for compensated absences. And we have
our auditors uh here this evening with
us to explain more. But I just want you
to know that we have implemented Gazsby
101 as required and um in also in
guidance with our district auditor,
we're navigating that and making sure
that we do it correctly. But you'll see
that uh line item um of 12.3. And so the
ending fund balance with the Gazsby 101
adjustment brings us to 78.2. too. Um,
but we'll go ahead with that. I'd like
to bring up um introduce our district
auditor, Alicia Herrera from ID Bailey,
and we will do a brief uh Gatsby 101
overview.
Thank you. You're welcome.
Well, good evening everyone. Um Joe and
Rosa asked me to come here today to give
you a brief summary of the Gazsby 101
new accounting standard. Um, as Joe
mentioned, it is um a long time coming
there. It's been over 30 years since
Gazby has made any updates to accounting
for compensated absences, which is any
type of um employee leave. So, for Mount
Sack, that's primarily vacation leave,
sick leave, and faculty load banking
leave. This standard was put into place
to modernize and standardize what
governments are doing in practice
because we saw that it was kind of a
patchwork of old standards and people
were accounting for things differently.
So, every governmental entity in the
nation will adopt this standard this
year. Uh, and I'm going to go over some
of the key changes and how it's going to
affect Mount Sack. So, the two major
changes are uh a liability for sick
leave will now be recognized by the
district. Um, historically, the county
standards have not provided for that.
So, now Mount Sack will recognize a
liability for its sick leave balances to
its employees.
Additionally, Gazsby uh clarified that
liabilities for compensated absences
will only be recorded in the full acral
financial statements. So, those are the
financial statements um that we bring to
you in December when I go over the
audited financial statements and they
should not be recorded in the fund
financial statements what are which is
what you guys will look at when you're
looking at the budget primarily the
general fund. This is consistent with
other liabilities that the district has
for example for its OPED and pension. So
it makes it more consistent across the
board where things are getting recorded.
Oh, sorry about that. Thanks.
Um, we are in the preliminary stages of
the audit. Actually, our official start
is next week. Um, but in working with
the district in planning for this, um,
we are estimating that the liability for
all of your compensated absences,
vacation, sick leave, and load banking
is going to be $67 million. It's very
very large, but you guys are a large
district and from what I've seen from
some of my other community college
districts that are similar in size, it's
it's pretty comparable. The impact on
the general fund, as I mentioned, um
there's no longer going to be a
liability recorded in the funds to be in
accordance with this new standard. Mount
SAC has historically recorded a portion
of the liability for vacation and load
banking. Uh so that will be reversed in
accordance with um when we do changes in
accounting standards we um do a prior
period adjustment so it doesn't hit your
income statement. Um but important to
note that just because it's not recorded
in the general fund any longer doesn't
mean that Mount Sack is um alleviated of
these liabilities to their employees for
leave balances. uh Mount Stack is still
liable for um amounts for vacation load
banking. Once employees uh take those
leaves or they terminate from the
district, those payments still need to
go out. So just because it's not going
to be recorded in the general fund
anymore, it's still a very real
liability for the district.
Uh I know you guys will have lots and
lots of questions for Rosa and Joe on
the budget, but I'm happy to take
questions specifically related to the
new accounting standard should anybody
have any.
It doesn't
give us more money, but it lets us do
our accounting so that it looks like we
have more money. Is that what it is?
Yeah. I I um actually Joe put it better
than I did as a um a really detailed
accountant. He said they're telling you
where and when to record it, not when to
pay it out. So um yes, it's going to
look like you do have um a higher fund
balance, but you still, like I
mentioned, it's still liability of the
district. Gatsby is something we got to
pay.
No, no, no. They set the accounting
rules that you have to follow so that
when you go out and issue bonds and you
turn in your report to the chancellor's
office every year that you're in
compliance.
So, it's how we note it within our
budget documents. It's how we note it
and recognize it. And so, it's an
accounting uh procedure and a standard.
And the the justification, the real
reason why I believe the legislature
implemented is every college district or
city did it differently. And so there
wasn't a one standard process on how to
report vacation, sick, etc. And so
that's why they implemented Gazby 101.
So So but it's something we have to pay
at some point.
Yes.
When I mean who do we pay it to? What is
it? So it's it's when the employee takes
vacation, sick, resigns, retires, etc.
So that liability is ongoing. Um means
it's ongoing. Don't we just pay this?
That's right.
As you hire new employees, uh as they
acrue time, we need to recognize those
absences.
Okay, I'll talk. May I ask a question?
Trusty Chiao. Okay, I have a I'm a
little confused on this one here. Okay,
let me just uh go over this one sheet
just make sure I understand. We are
projected I'm looking at the changes in
the revenues six 16499400
that is the projected increase in
revenues for the upcoming fiscal year.
Is that correct?
It's
I'm sorry. I'm on your page 13.
Okay.
Oh, page.
That was our
adopted budget.
Okay, I understand. I'm just talking
about your adopted budget right now.
Okay. So, our adopted budget projects
that we're going to have 16.5 million
more revenues in the current year. Okay.
That's that's what I see there.
No, that's 2425,
not 2526.
Yes. So, that's that's our 2425 adopted
budget versus the actuals.
May I ask? Okay. This 12 million that
we're talking about, you're gas,
this represents vacation time earned by
vacation and sick and other leave time
earned by our employees
that they have not taken yet. Is that
correct?
Correct.
Okay, that's the layman's explanation.
Okay. And this 16 million is, excuse me,
the 12.3 million represents a snapshot
time point in time as of 6:3025.
Is that correct?
6:3024
because we would have went past
prior period. So 24. What was the
liability as of 6:30? Or you haven't
determined that yet, right?
I we have an estimate. We've provided
preliminary or we worked with the
district on preliminary estimates. Keep
in mind we're now including sick leave.
It's going to be $67 million including
the sick leave.
67 million.
I believe the portion that is vacation
and load banking is closer to about 15
million
15 or 50
15. Okay, that sounds about right. Okay.
So theoretically the change in the
liability
is an adjustment to an income the
operational income.
Yes. Historically it would have been.
So so my question is this as we spoke on
the phone previously this is to book a
liability as of 63025.
Correct.
This $12 million adjustment is to take
the liability out of the general fund.
Take it out. Why are we taking it out of
the general fund? That's that's why I I
felt this was reversed.
Okay. It's the new accounting standard
saying it will no longer be recorded in
the general fund. It will only be
recorded in the full acral financial
statements which the district gets in
their audited financial statements once
a year. So very similar to OPED when we
talk about OPED at the end of the year.
We know there's a liability out there
for OPED and unfunded liability, but we
don't record it in the general fund
because the accounting sensors tell us
not to. We only show it in those full
acrruel financial statements,
but it's a and it it doesn't impact our
theoretically
assuming our employees take regular
vacation at the same rate. Okay, this
does not impact the cash flow of the
college.
If
no, they would already plan for that
ahead of time because they're used to
making ongoing payments.
Employee takes vacation, they get their
paycheck and that's it. And it reduces
the liability. Is that correct?
Okay. So, explain to me the logic. It's
on It's a liability
that's on one set of reports but not on
the other. I don't understand the logic
on that.
it gets really tricky. It's the basis of
governmental accounting and it's one of
the biggest differences between
governmental accounting and your
standard for-profit accounting is the
concept that fund accounting is done one
way and then when we consolidate
everything, it's done in a different
way. So the same reason why you don't
see your bonds in in the general fund,
your pension liabilities in the general
fund, those are all on a full acral
basis under the current accounting
standards. So therefore what you're the
reason why it's reversed is because it's
reflected in the opening fund balance.
Is that correct?
Yes.
Okay. And and for this report we don't
need to report it because when we spoke
on the phone when we spoke in our Zoom
meeting you know I asked you what was
the entry and I said the entry was debit
fund balance and credit the liability.
All right. and and we agreed that that
was the journal theoretical journal
entry here. Okay. And now I see the
revert because that's one fund we were
talking about and now this is converting
that other fund to this particular
report and that's why it increases our
fund balance.
I think I might have misheard you on the
phone or maybe I got we got the entry
right on the phone and and there was
some confusion, but to reverse the
liability, we increase fund balance.
Right.
So, this is really a credit to the fund
balance. Correct. Correct. Correct.
Because it's a reversal of something we
booked on another set that when we have
to convert that set over to this format,
it doesn't appear.
Correct.
And that was that answers my question.
And I said I thought this re this entry
was reversed
and because of that that's why we noted
before the 12.3 and then after the 12.3.
Okay. I understand.
So
thank you. Okay board colleagues I just
want to make sure that you know we want
to be accounting experts but we don't
need to get into the literal weed. So I
want to make sure that we are asking the
appropriate questions. Trusty Santos did
you have a question? Well, so
I don't understand why we're doing this
because it seemed like that number would
just be part of employees compensation.
So why are we going through all this
stuff? But anyway,
well my I mean this is the this is the
government accounting standard board who
is instructing us with this new
procedure and it's in a nutshell as you
gave us some information earlier this
week that we're moving it from here to
there on our ledger and it's literally
that simple. There's no hanky panky
going on. This is just the way that the
the government accounting standard is
ordering us to use to be consistent with
um GAP, right?
Yes. And we're in compliance and working
with our district auditors. We checked
in with the chancellor's office. So,
we're following all the dotting the eyes
and crossing the tees.
And I would also note this is a one-time
item. So, it's upon implementation of
this standard. So you won't see anything
on this going forward unless the
standard should change again in the
future which they don't.
Oh, it's one time.
Okay.
Not every year.
No.
Why are we doing it now?
Oh, interesting. Okay. I was not aware
of that.
All right. So, moving on to the next
slide, we will cover the unrestricted
general fund overall summary. And so,
I'll have Rosa give us a general
overview. And I know we're on time.
Well, uh this is a new report that we
haven't presented before, but basically
what we have here is uh well several
columns. We have the adopted budget
2425,
the actuals for 2425 and the adopted
budget.
uh on the middle column or well I guess
the second one what I want to point out
is that our beginning balance last year
was uh 71.6 six. And then down below you
see a number where we say is we have an
ongoing surplus of
3,15158585858585858585858582.
And if we go a little down below it says
onetime revenues less expenditures
8,871
891.
So the deficit because we've been asked
a few questions about the deficit. The
deficit is the difference between that 8
million 8.91 and the 3,151.
That is exactly the 5.7 million deficits
that we have. So basically we are
decreasing our fund balance uh to uh
65.9.
The number is not shown there, but the
65.9 gets increased by the 12.3 million
that we just discussed as a result of
the gas fee. And that 12.3 million is
just an accounting entry on this set of
financial statements, which is the fund
accounting, the unrestricted general
fund. that 12 million is being
transferred to our other set of
financial statements that we do we when
we consolidate all the funds and the
auditors assist us to do that and we
bring that report in December.
Um the other one is the other column is
the adopted budget 2526 and on that one
basically uh we are uh showing the 3.1
million um deficit that we show also
we're going to show that in a little bit
and you can see the fund balance the
ending fund balance for the adopted
budget is 71.88
or 71.9 and we're going to see that
again in another report.
Here we have the ongoing budget
assumptions and uh as we always do we
start with last year's ongoing revenue
budget 295
million.8 eight and just uh some
highlights here. The most important one
being the 100 million that we have
already talked uh Joe uh talk about
this. This is the 1,351
uh FTEES that we we got paid as a result
of these 100 million and is 10 million.
And the next line item is also important
because at this point we're budgeting
the two point 2 2.3% increase on our
rates for the student centered funding
formula which is 6.5 million for this
year. We have a total ongoing revenue
budget of 317.2
million almost. And now we're going to
go and look into the expenditures.
So on our expenditures assumptions we
also going to do some highlights here.
the ongoing expenditure budget starting
at 288.4
million.
Uh we have included a 2.3% increase for
all the employee groups and they are
we're still negotiating. I think they
settled and we're going to do the
adjustment the adjust the corresponding
adjustments. This was at the time we
were doing the budget which has been
more than a week ago. Uh then we also
have here an important increase for our
full-time faculty 2.5 million as a
result of earning the 10 million we have
to increase our faculty to meet our fund
obligation
and then we are also adjusting our
faculty uh by about 3.3 million
and then in addition within the budget
as I mentioned uh we have vacancies and
benefits uh budgeted so we're working
the VPs with president with our
president on hiring prioritization list
and filling some of those vacancies and
so that work is underway
and at the bottom we have a 2.8 million
because we have to increase our rate
driven due to our increases in utilities
the shortfall on our utilities was 2.3
million. So we have a total expenditure
budget of 320 million.3.
And now we're going to be looking into
our one time uh well actually first
we're going to look at the ongoing
deficit. I pointed out this on a
previous slide. Our total ongoing
revenue less our ongoing expenditures is
what makes uh the ongoing budget deficit
of 3.1 million.
And here we have the one-time revenue
and expenditure assumptions on top. We
just uh mentioned that there is three
39.9 million statewide for a 0.57%
growth for Mount Sack that is estimated
at 2.8 million if we earn the whole
thing. However, Mount Sack doesn't
budget for the growth until he's earn
it. So, we make a note there, but we
don't budget for that. Then the reversal
of the cashing county treasury, this is
another gas fee and this is the one that
comes every year back and forth is 3.2
million. So we have total one time
revenues for 3.2
and on the
um expenditure side a couple of items to
look is the OPE contribution. We didn't
make an a contribution in the 2023
24 fiscal year. So, we're making the
contribution this year. And uh
compensated absences, we do have uh
we're no longer able to acrewue any of
these expenditures on our books. So, we
have to set up a pay as you go budget.
Now when we have to pay for um vacation,
we have to sometime cash the low banking
or we have to provide back field for low
banking and we also have to pay uh you
know uh other expenditures for for that.
So the total uh onetime expenditure
budget is 5.5 million. And then um
the next one is our revenue generated
accounts. We also have a question here.
This is basically our self-funded
um revenues and self-funded programs
such as the community services program
on a lot of these uh you know programs
for uh our students you for different uh
areas chemistry the forensic team etc.
We get donations and we get uh
fundraising money from the foundation
and all that is recorded in this fund.
And uh down here is our compliance with
our board policy 60 to 50. We need to
have uh at least 10% of our expenditures
is shown here 33
uh 33 million. And on top of that, a few
years ago, we were directed by the
chancellor's office to have an 18.5%
when we closed the books. And at this
point, we are at 21.78
or 71.8
million. So, we are over the 18.5
required for that. One thing again to to
that we want to point and we keep uh
coming back to the GSB 101. The reason
that we have that 21.78%
is because the 12 million was included
as part of that beginning balance.
Eventually, it's going to go away. So,
if we didn't have that, we will be only
at 18.53%
this year.
And also like to just commend uh Mount
Sack. Uh this is also a reason why we're
able to take on the deferrals uh for the
strong fiscal management and leadership.
Um Quick question about the
the fund balance. Um there was a comment
earlier that the the district's fund
balance was uh over 18.5%.
And the way I heard that comment was
that that's a negative. Uh but that's
not the case, right? It just is this is
our rainy day fund. Is that correct? And
so the fact is that we have increased
our rainy day fund. it's now at 21.78%.
And so that's a good thing. And so it is
that where where we can withstand any
kind of budget
um destabilization.
We are we're hoping that would help
prevent any kind of potential layoffs if
that's ever even a threat. This helps us
with deferred maintenance, right? And
that's the reason why this board wants
to be a little more conservative and
increase and go beyond the 18.5%. Would
that be a correct statement?
Correct. And it allows us to support
student success, invest our dollars, and
support the the great work that's being
done, but also to your point that you
mentioned any unforeseen fiscal
conditions from the state or our
legislature. Um, so I think you know as
we talked about transitional K that
almost happened where that funding
almost left the community college system
and went to K12 but it then it came
back. So the impact for uh our a child
center for the four-year-olds that could
have impacted us and then we would have
a conversation is that something that
Mount Sack would like to continue and
that gives us an opportunity but yes
it's to navigate unforeseen fiscal
conditions. For example, we're able to
go with a deferral of 8.5 million
because we have sufficient reserves. We
don't have to do any borrowing
and that will not impact anyone's
paycheck, uh, vacation, sick time. It's
it doesn't impact employees or any
student, anything in the classroom. So,
thank you. You're welcome. question.
But the fund is
if you subtract the 12.3 million is
actually just a tad above 18.53,
right?
Yes.
So we're not actually exceeding our
board policy 6250 by any significant
amount.
Correct.
Okay. And then just in I know many of
you are new, but historically what kind
of deferrals has Mount Sachs seen? Like
right now we're facing a 12 11 to 12
million deferral. This is a small This
is very very small. Uh compared to other
deferrals maybe going seven or eight
years at least. Oh my god. The deferrals
were huge.
I remember when I was on the school
board in Hassuente the deferrals were
massive.
Yes.
You know it would be two three months
that you would need to to make up.
And uh it was conversations with
district auditors in fund borrowing. Can
we borrow one time from this fund and
then put it back three months, six
months down the road till we get the
state payment? Yes, those are
challenging times.
Some of the board members remember uh we
had to issue TR one year in 2012.
We have to issue TR to be able to get
through the end of the year because we
only have enough cash,
right? And then we should always expect
our fund balance to increase every
single year if our actually our
operating budget and expenses increase
every year right it will move in tandem
18.5% minimum so that fund balance
naturally if our expenditures and
revenues are going up that fund balance
will also increase
correct and I think also too with the
state uh allocation is dependent so to
your point yes
yeah so I know some people criticize our
fund balance for always increasing but
we have you know our great faculty staff
etc for making Mount Sack the kind of
college that has increased enrollment
that has uh increased uh you know a
revenue but as a consequence of that
well yeah then that fund balance will
also increase so it's not necessarily a
negative thing or that we're hoarding
and I think this also commendable to
once again to Mount Sack this also
assisted us in getting a top credit
rating in our bonds um for our community
members and lowering saving taxpayer
dollars. So that also contributed. So
the the the fiscal stability amount sat
with the reserves and any balance uh
definitely helps. Thank you.
And so as we mentioned,
Santos has a quick question.
Five, our ending balance was 78 million.
I'm looking at slide what 16
but in 2425
since we settled negotiations
very late
for I guess 23 24 we paid in 2425
some of the pre previous years
compensation from 2425 Remember
we
in 2425 we pay half of the retro
that was from 2324.
How much was that? More or less
over 9 million.
Over 9 million.
Okay. So
So if we would have paid that in when
when it was earned we would have had 9
million more.
No. No, in 20 in 23 24 we ended up with
a big um fund balance because we only
pay 4.11%
of the 8.22%.
Right?
But during 2425
we have to pay that 411% that we didn't
pay. So our ending balance was really
65. When you're looking at the 78,
it's because the 12.3 million
accounting,
you know, gas via standard that we keep
talking. So, it's better to look at the
65 because that's more of a realistic
number. The 12.3
I know it's very confusing.
It's difficult for uh you know it's a
very technical um entry to try to
explain this is the financial statements
for the fund balance and this is the
other financial statements that we also
have to do and kind of excuse the the
fund balance.
Okay. But you're saying we had a deficit
at the end of 2425 that we
Yeah, we have a 5.7 million deficit. If
you added
Okay. But if we would have paid
the compensation in 2324, we wouldn't
have had that deficit in 2425.
We maybe not, but we would have a a a
smaller fund balance,
a a smaller beginning balance.
Exactly.
Yeah. But we probably wouldn't have had
that.
It would be more more consistent. You're
correct.
Yeah.
Yeah. So at that point in time to to
split it, it was determined then. But
there were some scenarios whether to
split it by fiscal year. But you're
correct.
Yeah. So if we would have paid when it
was earned, we wouldn't have had a
deficit in 2425.
And I think thank you to our our uh
union leaders and stakeholders uh for
being flexible because that helped Mount
Sack. So,
trustee,
do
trusty Chen,
do you want to allow Mr. Dominguez to
finish all the way and hold the
questions or I have some questions, but
I think it might be better if we just
let you finish to the end.
We're on slide what, 23 and we have
about 10 more. Let's go.
Okay, so we're wrapping up here. So, um,
but yes, we are, uh, committed to
students. We are in the success of
people and the people business. So 86%
of our of all expenditures on the
unrestricted general fund are salary and
benefits. So uh from our revenue on the
left hand side we get 78.2 million which
is about 24% from property taxes. Our
educational protection account at 47.9
which is about 15%. Our state
aortionment 154.2 at 48%. And then you
see the smaller amounts from uh
non-resident our lottery. And then uh
thank you President Garcia lottery will
no longer be used for utilities. It'll
be dedicated for educational supplies.
And so we also made that adjustment. On
the expenditure side uh as I mentioned
we have capital outlay uh insurance,
utilities, legal supplies and materials
and then our employees benefits at 24%
77.7 million. Our classified salaries at
73.2 at 22% and our academic salaries at
133.1 at 40%.
And then in in summary as a whole the
big picture so what we connected on was
on the unrestricted general fund but I
thought it was important to highlight
the other funds that we have and oversee
and we're public fiscal stewards of
these funds and we want to make sure
that we maintain fiscal solveny. So
here's a summary of all the funds there.
And so at total for 2526
190.6 million.
And then for future budget challenges as
I mentioned uh the tax structure on the
higher income the small group of higher
income taxpayers were u reliant on that
and that is also a challenge. Inflation
as cost of operations and goods rise uh
here in California. And then the fiscal
uh policy turbulence uh that we're going
through from TRIO PEL adult ed uh be
becoming or um we still are a HSI
institution but we no longer get the
federal funding for it. Uh starting 2526
the annual cost of living adjustments uh
the COLA student centered funding
formula are set to expire. um for
declining or districts that are um
stagnant, that's going to be a bigger
challenge. Uh for growing districts, uh
that'll be helpful, but I mean, it's
just a challenge overall. And I
mentioned the parking revenue, the the
1.2 shortfall. So, that'll be uh from
our general fund. And then no deferred
maintenance uh funding or instruction
equipment. And I know the lobbyists are
are reaching out to the governor and the
legislature uh when is it going to be
reinstated? So, but as of right now 2526
that's not in there. And then uh kudos
to the trustees and our president
continuing funding OPED contribution and
our retirees health premiums and
healthcare costs and want to say thank
you.
Open it up to additional questions.
Appreciate that.
An ongoing uh challenge for us. What's
the feeling
um about it? I mean, is it that
it's crucial? I I think um
of course, but
how's the governor and some of the
legislators perceiving it?
I believe um they're definitely hearing
that it's a challenge. Uh they're
talking about maybe a smaller portion of
the educational equipment um facilities
funding, but those are just
conversations. Nothing's been set. So, I
think it's some of them actually
thinking that local entities should
cover that.
I think that's the piece uh it's on our
own right now and so local colleges are
covering their own. So that's been the
what we have been trying to do
and we do cover quite a bit of it anyway
but
we cover a very portion I from my
understanding and looking at the
previous budget documents I think it was
like 20 million plus in previous years
and so we're only chipping in a sliver
of that.
I think Trusty uh Chow has four
questions.
I'd like you to scroll back to your page
19 and I'm just trying to understand the
cash flow for our budget. Okay? And I'm
trying to keep it as simple as possible.
The page 19,
if everything is actual, I'm going to
assume budget and actual are going to be
close. Okay. We're going to burn through
3.1 million of cash with the current
existing budget. Okay. Is that a
reasonable comment?
Yes, we are going to have 320. Then we
have then I'm going to and all the next
screen the one time only are not not
part of the 3.1 is that correct?
Yes,
they are not part and therefore the
positive this cashing county this has no
impact on our cash flow because this is
a book entry mark to market for our
bonds. Correct.
Yes, it's a cash entry.
Okay. No impact on cash flow. But you've
omitted in here being conservative as
you are the skiff increases. Right. So
we're going to leave that off right now.
Okay. So, so right now we're at 3.1
million negative cash.
No, one time only positive cash. Of the
5.5 million, is this all negative cash
or do we take out the Gazsby 101 on
here?
Because all these are one time only
expenditures which will require cash.
Yes, we will pay those.
So, I should I include the 5.5 million
of cash burn here? Is that an accurate
statement?
Yes.
Okay. So, now we're up to 8. We're at
3.1 + 5.5.
We're at 8.6 million negative cash burn
here. Okay. And then we go to the next
screen. And this is some other
operations we have that you know it's
and this thing says the expenditures are
going to exceed our revenues by 1
million. Correct.
Yes.
Therefore we go up to $9 some odd
million dollar cash burn. Correct. Based
upon this budget.
Correct.
And that's that's the end. So,
we're if the budget is as you project it
to be, we're going to burn through 9.1
million of cash in the next year. And we
some of it will be offset by the
governor's other monies, but we haven't
accounted for it yet, right? But still,
this is 9.1 million of cash that within
this budget we're going to burn through
and our reserves are only 71 million.
Okay.
This seems like an excessive burn. Okay.
I'm a little concerned. Now you included
in this budget in this 9 some odd
million burn we have deferred
maintenance of about 5 million. Is that
correct?
Yes.
Okay. Now we have a bond that has
deferred maintenance built in. Correct?
Because I remember we had deferred
maintenance on the bond in the bond
monies. So is this is this deferred
maintenance and is it is it in addition
to what we have allocated in our measure
V or you know measure V bond.
Yes.
And and so so my concern to the board is
based upon this before whatever windfall
we get from the from the state and the
the windfall from the state in this last
year was 10 million and we believe it's
maybe 5 million for the next year. Is
that a reasonable
projection that the state is going to
give us for increases in enrollment?
Are you talking about the growth?
Yeah, for growth
2.8.
2.8. Okay.
But it's possible that it could be more.
Okay. So, so we're saying
we're at the 9 million is set. We're
going to burn through 9.1 million of
cash. Based upon what I'm seeing here,
we might have 2.8 to offset it. Is this
an acceptable budget? I have a little
difficult time with this.
So some of the items that I mentioned uh
we have to as we're working on the
prioritization list of vacancies.
Another opportunity is reduction of
utility costs. Uh the commitment from
the general fund of the 1.9 to parking
um increasing facility rentals. So how
do we offset those cost impact? Um,
another uh piece of that is our um
workers comp and uh leaves and work
making sure how we uh can be more
proactive with campus safety training
etc to reduce the amount of injuries um
on work time. So that is a component and
then as I mentioned uh and partnering up
in collaboration not on our own is with
instruction and other leadership about
uh as we budgeted approximately 16
positions to meet the fawn faculty hire
but we have 3.1 million of hourly
faculty
that just bumped up and so there's an
opportunity there if we're hiring
full-time faculty in theory you would
reduce the hourly, but that's that's
work that still has to be done. So,
that's also um underway right now.
So, my question to Mr. Dominguez and
Mroy is
do you have
within the parameters of what we have
here? Do you think you could squeeze out
squeeze out and reduce our expenditures
by $7 million? I mean, that seems like a
lot of money.
Or are are we as a board going to
approve this and we will live with a $9
million cash burn of out of out of our
reserves because that's in theory what's
going to happen here.
Yeah. So, we are committed to making
sure that we maintain fiscal solveny and
we make adjustments. We have to and and
I think
because this $9 million cannot continue
year in and year out.
You're correct. And then as I mentioned
previous, we have to do better at
communicating the fiscal stance of the
district and explain in detail because
it is uh can be difficult to follow. But
we do need to uh enhance communication
where we can work together because I
cannot do this on my own. I'll be
upfront and honest. This is a
collaborative effort with all the
departments and and you know we're
talking about reductions but there's
also an opportunity where do we enhance
revenue and I think with the skiff model
and what we have how do we increase
certificates how do we increase so
there's also opportunity and and I'll uh
okay you I think you hit it on the head
here if our skiff goes up all right
let's say our student enrollment goes up
how much can we increase revenue right
because Here the assumption here is that
your revenues here at 317 million
assumes flat enrollment at this point in
time. What's the underlying assumption
here?
So flat enrollment and but we know with
this slide right here the governor and
legislature gave us some money to fund
unfunded full-time equivalent students.
How much is that?
So there's a question mark that 810
810 is unfunded right now. How much is
that worth dollar-wise? Approximately
probably about 4 to 5 million.
4 to 5 million. Okay. So it
theoretically if we have an enrollment
of 810 additional
full-time equivalent students, right?
That would be another four or$5 million
and that would cover our burn
theoretically
and uh the funding from the state from
the governor the legisle and assuming we
get funded.
How is it that we didn't get paid for
these 810? I don't understand that. I
thought we earned it. We we hit a cap.
We capped. Okay. All right. So, we're a
victim of our own success here. Correct.
Thank you. I would say the the success
the of our programs and students
enrolling I mean it's it's a beautiful
thing but the state and the legislature
and their funding formula is capped at
that amount and right now
has our cap is our cap going to increase
in the current fiscal year.
So now the new base has been
implemented. So this is our current uh
funding unless the governor and
legislature increase to cover the
unfunded. So right now we are not
projected to be funded for the
additional 810 or if we grow say 2,000
more students that'll be unfunded.
Unfunded, right?
Yes.
So we are we are at the cap at this
point in time.
Yes.
So it is like not in our best interest
to grow. Is that correct? Because we're
going to incur more costs and not get
paid. Is that a correct statement?
I'll defer to um
Not necessarily. Not necessarily. So, we
were just funded that that's why I
mentioned we were just given the
governor and legislature approved 2425
to go back in time and do a catchup. And
I don't know the just justification or
reasoning. I I wasn't in the chambers at
at Sacramento, but that was unique for
them to do that to go back in time and
say community college districts, we're
going to help you out for 2425 and give
you a chunk of money for 2526. That's
never been done before.
Well, I have to believe, if I may, that
when Dr. Garcia, myself, I think Dr.
Adalgo or Dr. Bucko, we went and we
advocators
and telling them we're actually we have
more students than we're getting paid
for. And that was one of our key
messages. I have to believe that there
was that influenced and I know excuse me
the the department of finance
particularly were very curious to have
us explain further our challenge.
I I need to have one more comment. You
know it it's not on your slides as in
the other you know we talked about this
we we we had a net operating loss of the
past fiscal year 630 630 uh25
at 6
5.7 million correct 5.7 million of which
when I reverse out
five million for an acral for
uh for deferred maintenance and 1.9
million for progress theoretically were
positive cash about a million in our
past fiscal year. Okay. So, I'm okay
with that. But I think as a board we
sort of have to take a leap of faith
here that
we're not going to burn through $9
million. But I'm I have a little
difficult time with that leap of faith.
I don't know how my fellow trustees feel
here.
I have faith in our in our exceptional
staff. If you would guess like
so
from 2425 to
let's see
we had okay 2425
all our money it was 979 million and
then it shows that for 2526 it's only
going to be 890.
I don't believe it.
Well, I think it's a conservative budget
and at the end because that's what
always happens we ended up we always end
up with more
so let me clarify so this is a point in
time and what I'm going to explain here
for example the bond construction
uh we just got an amazing credit rating
uh selling bonds so that 204 and we're
just proposing a 250 draw down so that
number is going to bump up so this is a
point in time
uh on our unodudited actuals and our
adopted budget, but then it's going to
change and then we'll bring it back and
we'll update and explain the change.
So, you're saying the 8.90 is going to
bump up.
It's going to bump up. But, but bond
dollars, for example, bond dollars can
only be used for specific reasons. We
can't use that on. So, yes.
Yeah.
Right. Board colleagues, we want to try
to wrap this up. Are there any questions
over here on this side? Trustee Chan
Hagerty, student trustee. I know your
student trustee is very interested in
the details of this budget, right? I
know
Dr.
Yeah. Okay. Uh I heard that. I'll take
that. The the questions being called. Um
with that, we will cease discussion and
we will then move for a vote. So the
item has been moved and seconded. We've
had our discussion and presentation.
Thank you so much for going through
these slides and and responding so
appropriately. So we will now go for a
vote. Student trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Any abstensions?
Hearing none. Motion carries. Thank you
very much. All right. We will now move
over to our consent agenda. Uh there are
a number of items that have been
presented that are routine in nature. Uh
board colleagues, are there any items
that need to be pulled from the consent
agenda items?
Hearing none. Is there a motion for
approval?
It's been moved by Dr. Baka. Is there a
second?
It's been seconded by Trustee Chen. All
uh student trustee.
I approve.
All those in favor say I.
Any opposed? Abstensions? Motion
carries. Great. That takes us straight
over to
Gita.
Anybody want that?
Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Um, we are now,
goodness gracious, we are zipping down
to board reports. All right. Item 15.01
on the agenda. Student trustee. We'll
start with you.
So, happy fall everyone. I have been
close working closely with um the
associated students. Um, we were
planning on actually potentially writing
new legislation for basic needs as I've
heard that there have been like several
complaints about it not being able to um
accommodate for so many students. So, um
it's still in the works and we're still
collaborating with basic needs, but
hopefully um we can um try to add more
donations to that area by having like a
little donation box for um that students
will see while they're registering for
classes. Um and then additionally
um we would also like associated
students would like to work with um the
board of trustees and they would like to
host more like um student forums. So um
that we kind of want to uh we want to be
able to include the campus community and
the decision- making and um that's
that's pretty much it. That's pretty
much it for all I have to say, but
wonderful. Thank you very much. Uh,
Trusty Chen Haggerty.
Um, I want to congratulate those um,
newly hired, promoted, and best wishes
to the retiree. Uh, special
congratulation to Joe Jennum and, uh,
his team. Um well what a wonderful
achievement.
August 15 I attended the uh classify
professional development day and that
was very um exciting. All the speech
from the VPs and uh Dr. Garcas were very
inspiring
and um congratulation to all the
president's award winners and especially
Dr. Oio. Uh thank thank you for your 30
some years of service. Um, I think that
Blockbuster t-shirt, if any of you there
was really a hit and I I wish I have
one, but um I think we have to remember
um the lesson from Blockbuster.
You know, I know many of us took our
kids every Friday after school. It's all
at Blockbuster
uh choosing movie tapes and
um so I guess you know the the
management didn't see you know lack of
uh
vision or whatever didn't see the the
development of uh entertainment trend
and all that that's why they disappear.
I think we need to remember that. Um
just on the sign
our student trustee she has no idea
you don't know you don't know even no uh
blockbuster no more I think you know the
management didn't read that book you
know who moved my cheese you know any of
you know that book um but any of you
know you know your kids choose from beta
to VHS you don't even know what that is
do You know why
Beta lost to VHS,
right? Beta
take
gone.
Anybody have the answer?
If someone have, I take you to lunch.
The reason was the pornography industry
chose VHS.
That was the reason why beta tape were
gone.
Okay, back
on that note. Thank you, Trusty Jenerty.
Very powerful industry.
All right. Thank you for our lesson for
today.
All right. Is there more? Okay. Wait,
there's more.
August 20th, uh, I attended the new
student welcome, uh, 22nd, the fall flex
day welcome luau and
September 8th, uh, this Monday, the uh,
Roland High coordinating council uh,
meeting. And I I'm very impressed. the
Roland Unified School District, the
superintendent,
uh, Alex is always there and I think,
you know, he remain uh, connected with
the, uh, community every month and and
really gain a lot of support,
especially, you know, when you need to
pass the pawn on or whatever. So, um,
that ends my report. Thank you.
Thank you, Trusty Chen. Ah, yes. Uh, a
big uh welcome to our newly hired um
full-time faculty. It was always it was
just so impressive speaking with the the
few that I got a chance to talk to and
um their backgrounds are very
impressive. You can definitely tell the
communications professors are really
good at what they do when they came up
here. It's just very very impressive and
no wonder our students, you know, go on
to win all these awards and and uh
speech and debate. So, welcome and
congratulations to our outstanding
athletics department for um bringing
home the national uh basically the
national championship for community
colleges for the second time and
hopefully we can we can repeat. I hear
that we have a lot of returning students
coming back from some of these
championship teams.
In terms of events I attended, I
attended the new students welcome which
was fantastic just to be in that room
packed to capacity to see all these
faces there and know that that was just
the second one. You know, we had two of
those. So to to see all these students
there ready to start their um uh college
careers at Mount Sack was really great
and our staff was fantastic as well um
introducing them to everything that our
college has to offer.
I got to attend the Asian-American Drug
Abuse Program, Gayla, and it was
actually held at LA Trade Tech, and the
entire event was catered by their uh
culinary arts facility, and I got to
say, it was one of the the best banquet
meals I have had. I was really
impressed. It was a Hawaiian luau style,
and they had Kala pork, they had uh
pokey, they had all these things. So, I
I have no doubt that our culinary
facilities, our culinary program can
rise to that level. And it's it's um
good to see that the Cafe 91 is coming
back for um inerson dining. And it's my
goal that you know, Mount Sack becomes
and our our um our student center and
the large space there becomes an area
where people will consider for for big
events like that as well. I think that
would be really great for the community
if we um could offer that at some point.
I also attended the Shili Temple uh
three acts of goodness opening ceremony.
This is their 10th year of providing
this um this class and you know just in
this and what they talk about you know
three acts of goodness. It's not a
religious teaching. It's it's something
that's universal.
uh say good words, do good acts, and
think good thoughts. And I think given
all the turmoil that we're experiencing
in this country now, it's just needed
more than ever. Um that type of that
type of outreach and it goes to the to
the kids, right? And sometimes you see
adults acting in ways that you would not
want our students uh to emulate and it's
very sad. Sometimes I I have my kids
watch the news to tell them this this is
exactly what you don't want to be. You
know, I I use that as a teaching moment
and it shouldn't be that way. So that's
it's sad that we're at that point. I do
want to mention the the Sheila Temple.
They've they mentioned to me that they
would love to partner with Mount Sack
and offer um meditation courses or or
you know anything you know that we might
think we can partner with them on. So I
will connect them with you Dr. Garcia
about ways that they could benefit our
our student body or even our our faculty
and staff. That's my report. Thank you.
Thank you very much, Trusty Jen. Dr.
Um just want to congratulate our uh
newly tenured professors. Great to speak
with some of them out there and just
kind of hear their stories. Um and just
great to add to our already great
faculty. So uh congratulations to them.
Um, and I also want to thank our um,
school of continuing ed and some of the
work that they've done. I know there was
a problem with an MO with theou with the
county for our older adults program. So,
my mom is a student in that program. So,
she called me right away and was
wondering what was going on. So, I got
on the phone, started making phone
calls. So, I appreciate uh the efforts
made to uh make sure that those uh was
it a few hundred students that were
impacted uh were able to be uh relocated
with and I think the city of La Point
was very accommodating. So, um just uh
thankful for um everyone helping out
with that and making sure that our our
older adults, you know, have a place to
take their their classes. So, just want
to thank for that. And then um uh I know
this Friday uh Dr. Garcia and myself
will be on a a panel in San Diego for
the California Latino School Boards
Association
um talking about uh vision 2030 and uh
it's traditionally been um an
association for K12 Latino school board
members. Um and uh I've been working
with some of the folks there. I used to
be on that board when I was in the K12
and we're really working to make it more
of a K14
um partnership so that um there's just u
more communication and uh more resources
and and more advocacy out there for uh
K12s and and community colleges
especially now with all the programs
that are linking our high schoolers in
terms of uh pathway program CTE pathways
and dual enrollment. Um so there's a
much different perspective now than
there was probably 1015 years ago. So uh
anyway looking to um continue to
advocate for um our our incoming
students you know as well as our own
students and kind of share our knowledge
with some of the K12 uh trustees
throughout the state. So um looking
forward to to sharing that. I think Dr.
Roman is also on uh the panel from
LACCCD and then David Villa, one of the
u trustees also with LACCCD. Um and and
Linda Vasquez from the chancellor's
office. Yeah. So um a lot of a lot of uh
heavyweights there. Um so looking
forward to that. That concludes my
comments.
Thank you, Dr. Trusty Santos. Um, so,
um, I' I've still been doing the local
protests. Um, and we got through 10
Balman Park concerts in the park without
it. It was nerve-wracking, but without
ice appearing. And I have I have to tell
the other trustees about what happened
at Bowwin Park's uh, 5K.
Uh, it was like the 30th annual. It was
on a Saturday. I arrived at 700 a.m. Oh
my god.
I was so happy. There were four Mount
Sack tables at the event
and I was so happy. I was so excited. Uh
I think I scared everybody because I
went up to them and I was saying, "I
didn't know you were here. How'd you get
here? What happened?"
And um so they were like, you know, and
and uh and then they told me, well, the
city invited us. So I went over to the
city staff, how did you do this? How'd
you get four tables here? And who did
that? Who invited Jenny did it? So I
went up to Jenny. Jenny, what happened?
How did you get Mount Sack? And she
said, well, I I you know, I called Mount
Sack and they had me fill out a form. I
said, a form. So I went back to the
mount sacks, what where is this for? So
evidently,
you know, and I'm, you know, to me,
Jenny was a miracle worker. I had to go
tell her supervisor and the city
manager, you know, Jenny's a miracle
worker. I couldn't have. And the city
manager, he said, "Oh, I thought you got
them." I said, "No, that was Jenny."
So I went back to the staff. They told
me that there's a form. So evidently,
there's a new process. And I'm so glad
the city did this because I know if I
would have done it, I would have gone to
Dr. Garcia's office and then I talked to
Joe Monroe and they would say, "Oh yeah,
you could have a table." And I would
have got one table out there. So what I
learned from our staff is that there's a
new process
and there's a online form where if a
community there's a community event you
fill it out and they circulate the form
among all the departments and they
decide if they want to attend.
So, um, so let let all your, you know,
community organizations know. And like I
said, I'm so glad she did it instead of
I because I couldn't have got four
tables out there. And I don't know if
it's a new process u that um Dr. Castro
or Dr. Garcia put together, but oh, I
love it.
So, that was that's so exciting to me.
and I've been letting my organizations
know here's a link to the form if you
want somebody to show up. Um and then
yes uh thank you trustee Santos. There
is a there is a new form. It is located
on our website to provide easy access
and what I can do for next board meeting
is include it in my student services
slides so that you all have access.
Yeah. What's the name of that page? It's
community. I will uh I will look it up
and then also provide it to you all.
Yeah. And you know, but so anyway, I'm
I'm so excited about that. Um also,
okay, so I went to um IBW annual
barbecue
and you always meet exp construction
experts in different areas. So, I'm
looking forward to sharing that the
ideas I ran into with Dr. Garcia when I
meet with her next week. Um, and
although I prefer local events, I love
going to the Wilmington Labor Day March
and Picnic. Um, which I I went to and I
enjoyed this year. Now, all the colleges
that have labor studies were there.
UCLA, Ali, uh, not um, Treyek, uh,
Dominguez,
and I brought little postcards to share
that I forgot to bring today, but I'll
bring them for everybody, including
Professor Anders.
Uh, because um, although I know it's not
in my scope, I I would love to see labor
studies at Mount Sack. Um, I also
attended the new student welcome.
Um, oh, and then after um the faculty
flex day, I met a CSEA employee. I can't
remember her name. I think it was
Tiffany.
Um, and she was popping balloons and
taking them down. And I asked her, uh,
is all that stuff going to the
landfield? And, and I'm so happy I made
that comment to her because I ran into a
likeminded person.
I mentioned my concerned about balloons
pollution on the dice, but I never got
traction. So, it's nice to know to run
into somebody else in the world that see
seems the same to me. And um and I know
I'm not crazy. And that's my report.
That's a Thank you very much, Trusty
Santos. Uh Dr.
Santos
this much about a form.
Well, I always feel like I'm in causing
extra work and I could just
Well, you got your form. Um
the the the sports program here uh just
excellent and and we had the current AD
and assistant AD and the coaches some of
the coaches here but Mount Sack really
been built
from decades past. So there's a lot of
people that have contributed to really
create a great tradition and over the
years it's just improved. Adding the
academic support uh uh for athletes just
is unique uh uh you know among the
community colleges in the state. It's a
very strong program. I think we're
not only having great athletes but also
um uh scholars as well. So, that's a
great thing and it's great to see the
new energy here with the with the newly
hired faculty and uh looking forward to
30 years of teaching.
You know, I wish them really well. Uh
there's been a lot of advocacy for the
nursing program and the community
colleges and I know Dr. Garcia has done
additional work with the chancellor
Christian on this but trustee Peter
Hilago and I and she met with Lisa
Calderon the assembly member to try to
get her to support it. We need to get
the the governor's signature so that uh
the community colleges get the uh
nursing balariat uh approved and we can
award that and who knows maybe we we
will be one of the campuses. Uh there
has been a revision. I think there was
15 pilots. Now it's 10, but you know,
we'll see how it goes. Uh Dr. Garcia and
I also hosted uh Dr. Monte Perez from
from East LA College. Uh he wanted to
tour the campus uh you know because
they're doing a lot of stuff. He just
wanted to to meet with us and um tour
our facilities because he heard a lot
about it. Um I did attend the the Mount
Sack Flex day and it's it's quite a cool
coup that we managed to get the
chancellor to be here. She was wonderful
in the presentation and and you know a
lot of as always a lot of good
activities uh for the faculty on that
day. Uh I just got back from Santa Clara
the future summit yesterday. I had the
foundation executive board meeting. uh
that foundation is just doing really
really really well. It's providing
support from throughout the state. Uh I
sit on a couple of committees including
the investment oversight for uh the
Osher scholarship and the nursing
scholarship programs and it's amazing. I
mean our our um uh advisers on that uh
really uh stretch that money and you
know year after year we're awarding
Osher scholarships and nursing
scholarships throughout the state. Uh
this morning uh I had to fly back uh so
it's still ongoing but I I did stick
around uh or or attend early this
morning. Lee Lambert who's a chancellor
up in that area and Sonia Christian uh
presented and um you know she's just a
really a wonderful presenter in terms of
laying out the plan and so they the
focus really was on AI and workforce
development around AI. Um and like I
said they're still meeting it'll go on
tomorrow as well. And lastly, I did
attend the Mount Sack football game this
this Saturday. We're two and0 and it was
a close call because Mount San Diego
Mesa College is a very good football
team, but we did pull it out.
That's it.
Thank you, Dr. Baka. Uh, Trustee Cow,
I don't have much to report. I normally
have a story to tell, but I don't have a
story to tell because I only went to
very limited items. Uh, my only comment
tonight, I'm I'm normally positive, but
tonight, Mr. Dominguez, you sort of put
a splash of cold water on me, and I know
you're the messenger, but thank you for
presenting tonight along with Miss
Royce. Okay, I appreciate it. I hope
that we were able to find a way to shave
down our budget a little bit and uh be
self-sufficient. I think it's really
important for the future of the college.
And that pretty much concludes my
remarks.
Thank you, Trusty Jao. For me, um I'm
going to use one word to summarize a a
couple of words. And uh my month what
first one is pride. Second one is parks.
Third one is push-ups.
And pigkin is my fourth one. What the
heck does this mean?
First, um well, yeah, you're right.
They're all four Ps. You're right. But
the first one was I got to tour the
brand new new and improved Pride Center.
The new Pride Center space is located
just right here. And it and they I love
how they just say it loud and clear that
every student belongs. I love the
stylish furniture. I love how big it is.
And so it's I was very pleased and and I
was so honored that they would just walk
me through and and introduce me to
everybody.
um park. I got the honor uh of putting
on an MC hat for uh LA County Supervisor
Ila Solis as she uh did a groundbreaking
for a remarkable brand new the the Pente
Hills Regional Park. I don't know if you
remember for those of you who've been in
our area in La Point, there was that La
Point landfill, the La Point Hills
landfill that was a huge eyesore and um
it is now being reconverted. It's been
remediated and it's now going to be a
beautiful park. So, I got to MC an event
uh for her at that location just this
last Saturday. There was a great crowd.
It was a historic day. And yeah, I even
survived the shovels grounding uh the
shovel ceremony without tripping. So
that was very cool. And then um the
other part is um push-ups. I got to my
wife and I got to join Professor
Lorraine Jones and did a fitness class
on a Friday afternoon at 1 and for an
hour we were doing burpees and push-ups
and uh sprints and my wife loved it. she
kicked our butt and it was so fun to
hang out with CSEA employees, with
faculty for that lunchtime and do that.
And I encourage all of you and in fact
I'm I'm encouraging Dr. Garcia to join
us one time. And then lastly um uh this
coming Friday and thank you Dr. Garcia
and Dr. Castro and team. Um, in my neck
of the woods, uh, Bonito Unified School
District has its annual huge rivalry
football game between Sand Deas High
School and Leverne's Bonita High School.
Sandus and Bonita. They It is a rivalry
game. They They normally go to Citrus
College, but they are going to Mount
Sack and we are thrilled. And there's
going to be like 10,000 people,
guarantee you, who are going to come.
It's that kind of a draw. and that's
going to be this coming Friday night.
So, it's it's rivalry, it's community,
and it's Friday night lights all rolled
into one. It's it's so fantastic. So,
that's my report, and I will now turn it
over to Dr. Garcia.
Thank you.
I want to start by uh once again
welcoming the new faculty. It is amazing
to see their energy, their excitement,
and I look forward to continue to get to
know them. I had the privilege of
participating in in their final uh
interviews and I'm just really grateful
that they've selected Mount Sack.
want to start by sharing exciting news
uh and thanking BP uh Dominguez. Um we
sold $250 million in bonds yesterday
and to see that happen in real time uh
was amazing. This is the Barclays
uh building in New York City. And um I
want to share that we had 65 unique
investors interested in purchasing the
bonds for Mount Sack. Uh our credit
credit rating is very important. Um and
obviously it is during this process that
it is highlighted the most. um from
because we had that uh amount of
interest from different investors and
frankly like um there was a lot more
interest in purchasing than than what we
had available to sell. What happened
between pre-pricing and when we um
approved the final pricing was a
reduction of 10 to 20 basis points in
absolute yield which resulted in $9
million in savings to our taxpayers.
So it is evident that spending the time
and working very closely with um our
team, the team that obviously our lead
um which is Barclays and including the
other um team members from the other um
companies resulted in us coming to um
the final approval of those uh rate and
ultimately what will result in savings
to the community. On September 25th,
Barclays will transfer $250 million to
the county of LA. So really really um
grateful um to our community for their
belief in us and this is how we return
their trust in us by trying to do
everything that we can to save money
that ultimately they will pay. Um, and I
look forward to um
bringing a an an action item for
consideration during the spring to to re
refinance some of the current bonds and
ultimately save uh additional funding uh
to our community.
I want to thank our um campus chief uh
police chief and the team um the campus
police team because they have a substant
station in building 410 room 1085A
and um I believe some some of the board
members have had the opportunity to see
that they are truly trying to connect
with students and this is another way of
being proactive. So really thankful to
them. Uh in regards to HR, there are
several events uh that are highlighted
in in uh relation to professional
development for our team members and um
it was mentioned that uh Chancellor
Christian was here to to conduct the
keynote for flex. So fle the uh flex day
and classified professional development
day. It is a collaborative effort. So I
just want to thank pod tremendously
under HR and here you'll have an
opportunity to see the other events that
took place in relation to professional
development for our team members. So
thank you and uh instruction healing
centered engagement uh faculty workshop
took place on July 16th. 30 professors
representing 21 different departments
completed this training and I'm just
really thankful for their commitment to
healing centered engagement and to
everyone that collaborated to provide
this opportunity
in regards to uh the school of
continuing edy
technician medical assistant
apprenticeship um programs we see the
results results of 2068
registered apprentices and just uh
really excited to see the opportunities
for our students. Uh student services
uh it was mentioned the new student
welcome was mentioned and um we see the
number of the students that participated
on day one, day two and there was a 28%
increase in comparison to 2024. It was
amazing to be in the space with our new
students.
And then I'll just continue on to um
sharing some of the monthly activities.
Um I will highlight the obviously our
new students always always I it was
amazing to welcome them on the first day
and to see their excitement. They're
some of them nervous but um just really
amazing. But I'll end with this slide. I
in supporting as mentioned by trusty
vaka um chancellor uh Christian with
advocacy for AB1400.
We did um uh meet with some of the Sia
who is the lead uh assembly member
leading this this bill. Um, and these
are my CEO colleagues and Chancellor
Christian who were all there to support
and advocate for AB1400 and we continue
to support her um and hopeful that we
are successful.
So that concludes my uh presentation. I
I there's additional events that I
attended um locally and I'm just really
grateful to everyone for everything that
you do. I want to acknowledge the
management uh team members who were
recognized during the last management
staff meeting. So, thank you all. Have a
wonderful night and look forward to this
fall semester. Thank you.
And uh before we adjourn, I just want to
report that um the uh October board
meeting will be moved from Wednesday,
October 8th to Monday, October 6th. So,
uh, we'll officially post that at our,
uh, study session on Saturday, but we're
just giving you an advanced notice that,
um, the board meeting for October will
be Monday, an unusual day, Monday,
October 6. And, uh, uh, we will be
meeting on that afternoon. But with
that, I believe we um, uh, have no
further discussion. So, I will adjourn
this meeting.
[Music]
Turn it up.